[Overview]

<p>Although Basculin's mediocre stats seem to estrange it as a viable option in the RU tier, it has a couple of redeeming qualities that should not be overlooked, primarily its excellent ability in Adaptability. Adaptability turns Basculin's Water-type STAB attacks into powerful weapons, making it an effective revenge killer with its strong priority Aqua Jet, as well as smashing anything that doesn't resist Water-type moves with Waterfall. In addition, access to new coverage moves in Superpower and, most importantly, Zen Headbutt, via BW2 move tutors expands Basculin's otherwise sparse movepool. However, the fighting fish faces stiff competition from other offensive Water-types such as Feraligatr and Kabutops, which have greater bulk as well as the ability to boost their Attack with Swords Dance. Basculin also struggles to break through many common defensive Pokemon such as Tangrowth and Slowking, therefore limiting its effectiveness.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Aqua Jet
move 3: Zen Headbutt
move 4: Crunch / Superpower
item: Choice Band
ability: Adaptability
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims for immediate power, using Adaptability-boosted Waterfalls and Aqua Jets to break down walls and revenge kill opposing sweepers. Waterfall hits extremely hard with a Choice Band equipped, reaching a Base Power of 160 thanks to Adaptability. Aqua Jet is an important priority STAB move that allows Basculin to revenge kill boosted sweepers, or clean up a weakened team late-game, as well as strike Choice Scarf users before they can land a hit of their own. The ability to hit common switch-ins such as Amoonguss, Qwilfish, and Poliwrath harder than Basculin's Water-type STAB move of choice makes Zen Headbutt an important move, while Crunch is preferred in the final slot to prevent Slowking from walling the set completely; Superpower is another option to defeat Ferroseed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature is preferred in order to outspeed important threats such as Adamant Entei, Sigilyph, and Rotom. As far as alternate moves go, Double-Edge is an option for decent neutral coverage, and Ice Beam can surprise physical walls expecting a Waterfall, Tangrowth in particular.</p>

<p>Basculin appreciates teammates that can switch into Electric- and Grass-type attacks. Rotom-C and Sceptile make for good partners as they resist these types and can threaten bulky Water-types like Slowking and Alomomola with their STAB attacks. In return Basculin can threaten Fire-types such as Typhlosion, though its frailty means that it cannot switch into even resisted hits; Rotom-C's Volt Switch can often allow Basculin to come in safely. Similarly, Fire-types which can check Grass-type Pokemon like Tangrowth and Amoonguss make for nice teammates. Emboar and Moltres are good examples, with the former often able to absorb sleep-inducing moves if it carries Sleep Talk. Basculin can defeat Rock-types such as Aerodactyl and Rhydon which trouble these Pokemon; but again, it must avoid switching directly in.</p>

<p>Entry hazard support is particularly helpful to wear down opposing Pokemon; two layers of Spikes support allows Basculin to potentially 2HKO Poliwrath as it switches in, making Ferroseed or Roselia good options. Roselia is a particularly good partner as it can completely stop Alomomola; Roselia can safely set up Spikes and recover HP with Giga Drain, while being immune to Toxic and not fearing burns from Scald thanks to Natural Cure.  They can also easily take Electric- and Grass-type attacks aimed at Basculin, and in particular check Sceptile and Lilligant well.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Basculin's movepool is quite shallow. It has access to Taunt, which could be useful to shut down defensive Pokemon, but is unwise on a Choiced Set. Aqua Tail is an option over Waterfall, but the decrease in accuracy, as well as the loss of Waterfall's handy flinch chance, is not worth the slight boost in power. A Life Orb can be used to switch moves, although the recoil makes Basculin easier to revenge kill, and the drop in power is noticeable. Finally, Mold Breaker allows Basculin to ignore troublesome abilities such as Water Absorb and Sturdy, but the substantial power decrease means that Adaptability is nearly always the wiser choice.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Generally speaking, Pokemon that can stomach Basculin's strong Water-type STAB attacks make for good checks and counters. Tangrowth and Alomomola can easily switch into any attack, heal any damage with Regenerator, and in Tangrowth's case, KO with its Grass-type STAB moves or cripple something with Sleep Powder or Stun Spore. Qwilfish can also handle Water-type attacks while setting up Spikes to hurt Basculin's hit-and-run style, and also avoids the 2HKO from Zen Headbutt thanks to Intimidate. Similarly, Poliwrath is immune to Waterfall and is not 2HKOed by Zen Headbutt, and can retaliate with strong Fighting-type attacks. Druddigon can stomach any single hit and KO in return, and Amoonguss and Slowking can heal with Regenerator while fearing only Zen Headbutt and Crunch, respectively. Exploiting Basculin's average Speed is a good way to check the hostile fish; Galvantula, Cinccino, Accelgor, and Sceptile are naturally faster and can KO with their strong STAB attacks, though it must be noted that most of these fast and frail checks take a hefty chunk of damage from Aqua Jet.</p>