[Overview]

<p>As far as appearances go, Crustle's hardened exterior is just about as deceptive as they come. Despite its reasonable defensive stats and typing, too many negative traits offset these positives for Crustle to effectively fill a defensive role. Its typing, in addition to offering a very limited pool of resistances to capitalize on, leaves it highly susceptible to entry hazards, making it far too high-maintenance to effectively play a role on defensive teams. Rather, Crustle actually functions at its best on hyper offense teams where it can make the most of its unique attributes. Access to both Stealth Rock and Spikes is a wonderful commodity in the RU tier, which, in tandem with its Sturdy ability, makes it an effectual lead for teams requiring speedy hazard support. What's more, access to Shell Smash allows Crustle to bring a whole new dimension to this role, allowing it to effectively anti-lead a great deal of the metagame. However, even within this role, Crustle faces competition from other Pokemon such as Smeargle and Omastar, both of which can fill very similar, if not identical, roles as Crustle, even going on to outclass it at times depending on the team structure. Furthermore, low Speed and lack of useful resistances consistently restrict Crustle, preventing it from maintaining a more consistent offensive presence and leading it to get "played around" at times. While by no means an appropriate Pokemon for any team, Crustle is a strong choice for any offensive team seeking a flexible lead, capable of providing excellent team support under most circumstances.</p>

[SET]
name: Custap Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Spikes
move 3: Rock Blast / Stone Edge
move 4: X-Scissor / Earthquake
item: Custap Berry
ability: Sturdy
nature: Adamant
evs: 220 HP / 224 Atk / 20 Def / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As a Pokemon capable of utilizing Stealth Rock and Spikes at once, especially backed by Sturdy, Crustle is a natural choice for a dual entry hazards lead. While such a set faces competition from Smeargle, Crustle retains certain perks that make it worthwhile for this role. One of the most significant of these is Crustle's significantly better maneuverability as a hazard setter; while Crustle can similarly ensure multiple layers of entry hazards by merit of Sturdy and Custap Berry, its superior bulk makes it capable of setting up later in a game if need be, making it less reliant on the first few turns of the game to accomplish its goal. This gap in bulk also makes Crustle far more resilient to multi-hit attacks, with Pokemon such as Cinccino and Rhydon becoming far less effective at restricting the amount of entry hazards it can set up. Furthermore, Crustle's better offensive presence allows it to immediately threaten other leads in a way Smeargle simply cannot, such as Scolipede.</p>

<p>Thanks to the combination of Sturdy, Custap Berry, and solid natural bulk, Crustle is typically capable of setting up two layers of entry hazards in most games; most defensive Pokemon cannot shut down Crustle without putting it to sleep immediately, and most offensive Pokemon either fall short of 2HKOing Crustle or put it into Custap Berry range in doing so, allowing it to pick up another layer of hazards. While typically reserved to setting up entry hazards, Crustle's ability to attack on its own should not be overlooked. For instance, Crustle's Rock-type STAB moves allow it to effectively prevent Cryogonal from spinning away its entry hazards, as well as generally damaging less bulky Pokemon. For this purpose, Rock Blast is typically the most useful option, as on top of being accurate and moderately powerful, it is also capable of breaking through Substitute and Focus Sash, allowing Crustle to better take on overzealous Substitute users and leads. Stone Edge, while not offering the same utility as Rock Blast, is significantly more consistent in its damage output, which can prove indispensable in acquiring chip damage on Pokemon. In terms of coverage, X-Scissor is often the most consistently useful, as Bug-type STAB allows Crustle to deal significant damage to Slowking, Tangrowth, and Uxie while maintaining reasonable neutral coverage overall. However, Earthquake achieves near-perfect neutral coverage alongside Crustle's Rock-type STAB and also allows Crustle to better chip away at Pokemon such as Golurk and Qwilfish, which Crustle will encounter somewhat commonly in the lead position.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>220 HP EVs puts Crustle at a total HP stat that is divisible by 16, which allows it to more easily bring itself into Custap Berry range through residual damage. For example, three consecutive switch-in's worth of Stealth Rock damage will bring Crustle into Custap Berry range, allowing it to make better use of the item should it attempt to preserve itself beyond the first few turns of the game. This investment in bulk, alongside the additional 20 Defense EVs, allow Crustle to avoid being KOed outright by attacks such as Cinccino's Rock Blast, specifically avoiding the 2HKO from Golurk's unboosted Earthquake, a common opponent to a lead Crustle. The 44 Speed EVs allow Crustle to outpace minimally invested Tangrowth, allowing it to either set up another layer of entry hazards or X-Scissor Tangrowth before being put to sleep. The remaining EVs are pooled into Attack to make the most of Crustle's moderate offensive presence. One might consider investing solely in Speed and Attack, given the nature of the set, as it would theoretically allow Crustle the opportunity to set up hazards more effectively against slower teams and consequently bring itself into Custap Berry range more consistently. However, it should be worth noting that given how the metagame tends to favor bulkier Pokemon, it is more likely for the extra bulk to benefit Crustle as a hazard setter under most circumstances.</p>

<p>As Crustle is primarily functioning as a lead, it doesn't exactly mandate any specific partner Pokemon, though there are certainly solid options for taking advantage of exactly what Crustle brings to the table. The most significant of these options is a spinblocker; as Crustle has no method of directly preserving its own hazards, it is very important to retain the option of preventing Rapid Spin. The most common choice for this role is Rotom, as it is both capable of immediately threatening Kabutops (the most consistent Rapid Spin user in the tier) and generating entry hazard damage with its reasonable offensive presence and access to Volt Switch, though alternatives such as Spiritomb, Misdreavus, and even more offensive variants of Golurk are usable as well. However, given the efficiency of the Rapid Spin users of the tier, it is worth planning one step ahead and utilizing a Pokemon capable of following up that spinblocker and pressuring the spinner in turn. Pertinent examples of these include Durant, Gallade, Manectric, and Sceptile, though various fast Pokemon with relevant coverage options can fill this role comfortably. Ultimately, partners capable of capitalizing on the Spikes support provided is one of the most crucial of partners. Normal-types, such as Tauros and Swellow, benefit greatly from Spikes, as many of their common checks and counters are affected by them.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash Lead
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Spikes / Stealth Rock
move 3: Rock Blast
move 4: Earthquake / X-Scissor
item: Lum Berry
ability: Sturdy
nature: Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>By incorporating Shell Smash onto an otherwise-straightforward entry hazard lead, Crustle is capable of significantly increasing its flexibility in the lead position. Perhaps one of the most desirable benefits this set offers is that of effectively anti-leading a plethora of common offensive leads very effectively while retaining utility value; Pokemon such as Scolipede and Smeargle consistently struggle to match up with this set, either forgoing their entry hazards of choice entirely or conceding a +2 Crustle with intact Sturdy for a single layer. While this is Crustle's most favorable match-up, it does not necessarily restrict its usefulness, as it is more than capable of functioning as a basic hazard lead against more defensively oriented teams. Furthermore, after entry hazards are accounted for, Crustle can utilize Shell Smash to apply significant offensive pressure to opposing teams, even sweeping under the right conditions (though this typically is not the case).</p>

<p>The combination of Shell Smash, Rock Blast, and Lum Berry is what makes Crustle so effective in combating opposing lead Pokemon, allowing it to significantly limit their performance and immediately threaten the opponent with a Shell Smash boost. Against leads such as Scolipede, Smeargle, and Uxie Crustle can comfortably Shell Smash without fear of immediate repercussion, being able to absorb a singular status move then follow up with a Rock Blast, breaking through the potential Focus Sash and forcing the opponent to respond to a boosted, potentially Sturdy-backed sweeper. This process can similarly function against teams that utilize fast sleep inducers, such as Jynx and Lilligant, to restrict Crustle's hazard laying capabilities. However, as this match-up will not be constantly relevant to Crustle, it is important to provide an alternative option to round out its usefulness as a lead, making entry hazards a perfect option for it. Typically, Spikes is preferable in this slot, since in addition to its limited distribution in comparison to Stealth Rock, it also makes more of the free turns Crustle finds against more defensively oriented teams, where its role as a Shell Smash sweeper is far less significant. However, depending on individual necessity, certain teams will require Crustle to utilize Stealth Rock itself, and it is by no means a bad option. As this particular Crustle is capable of exerting far more significant offensive pressure than a non-boosting variant, Earthquake's better neutral coverage alongside Rock Blast makes it the more consistent coverage move, allowing it to significantly damage Pokemon such as Golurk, Qwilfish, and Steelix, wearing them down for a more dedicated sweeper. However, the amount of relevant targets hit by Bug-type STAB is reason enough for X-Scissor to be given consideration, and more specifically is Crustle's most effective move to handle lead Uxie and Mesprit with.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Adamant is the nature of choice, with the boost in damage output being highly appreciated. As far as optimizing its potential as an anti-lead, a Lum Berry is the most effective item for ensuring that Crustle is not crippled before fulfilling its role, more specifically allowing it to Shell Smash against Smeargle without being shut down by Spore and proceeding to OHKO with Rock Blast. Similarly, while Crustle could technically utilize Stone Edge over Rock Blast for a more consistent attack in terms of damage output, it would disallow Crustle from KOing opposing leads through their respective Focus Sashes.</p>

<p>As Crustle is played most commonly as a lead, partners should be geared primarily towards making the most of the support Crustle provides. As the most significant niche of this Crustle set is its ability to gain an early-game advantage against opposing offensive teams, it accomplishes very little against more defensive ones aside from providing entry hazard support, making it worthwhile to invest in Pokemon capable of threatening common defensive cores. Examples of this range from Pokemon with relevant offensive typing and offensive presence, such as Moltres and Durant, to mixed attackers with appropriate coverage moves, such as Life Orb Druddigon and mixed Sceptile. In the case of more balanced teams, which perhaps have limited responses to boosting physical attackers, it is worth considering strong physical sweepers, such as Durant, Tauros, and Swords Dance Absol, to back Crustle, as the chip damage it provides through entry hazards and attacks of its own can help pave the way for a sweep. While not integral to the set's success, having a spinner such as Cryogonal or Kabutops can significantly increase Crustle's flexibility, allowing it to maintain its Sturdy further into the game.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As could be assumed, Crustle struggles to adequately fulfill a role outside of the lead position under normal circumstances. A dedicated Shell Smash set is an option, and while it is not technically outclassed in this role, it simply does not fair well in the RU metagame; its low Speed leads it to fall short of various relevant Choice Scarf users after a boost (even when factoring in the potential Speed boost from Weak Armor), and while its natural bulk might otherwise have been able to offset this issue, its vulnerability to entry hazards hinders it too heavily. A similar set that looks decent enough on paper but fails in practice is a defensive hazard setter, attempting to play off Crustle's acceptable defensive stats to set up hazards. However, this set too struggles greatly with Crustle's vulnerability to opposing entry hazards, in addition to its sheer lack of relevant resistances, making this role better off left to Pokemon such as Omastar, which retains somewhat better resistances and the ever-significant STAB Scald.</p>

<p>As far as alternatives on a lead set go, Flail might be a useful option if the tier occupied more relevant Ground- and Fighting-types that were hit neutrally by it, but with Pokemon such as Golurk, Rhydon, and Steelix being some of the more common leads, Flail tends to fall flat. However, a moderate amount of common defensive Pokemon that will stay in on Crustle are susceptible to Toxic, which makes it a usable alternative over an attacking move if need be. Unfortunately, given the offensive nature of the teams Crustle occupies and the inability for it to spare any of its moveslots, it is rather difficult to implement effectively.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As it plays mostly in the early-game, Crustle's primary checks and counters are those that can restrict its entry hazards without in turn being dispatched. Kabutops can immediately put Crustle in a difficult position, as it can avoid being OHKOed by any given move, threaten Crustle with its STAB attacks, and potentially spin away any entry hazards Crustle might attempt to set up. Faster sleep inducers such as Jynx and Lilligant can capably shut down and 2HKO Custap lead variants of Crustle without allowing it to set up hazards. However, variants of these Pokemon that run Life Orb risk bringing it into Custap range with an attack, and can therefore be KOed in the proceeding turn should Crustle wake up, and Shell Smash leads easily shrug this off thanks to Lum Berry and subsequently OHKO both. Opposing Rock Blast users such as Cinccino and Rhydon are capable of restricting the amount of hazards Shell Smash leads can set up very nicely, but cannot typically manage similar results against the bulkier Custap lead variants, with Rhydon needing very favorable amounts of hits and damage rolls in order to OHKO it. Furthermore, for teams lacking in such specifics means with which to limit Crustle's entry hazard laying, a fairly effective method of combating it is to play around the Custap Berry by 2HKOing Crustle without bringing it below 25% health in the first attack, thereby effectively restricting it to a single layer of entry hazards. While it can at times be difficult to find a Pokemon capable of doing so and still having the bulk and typing to sponge a hit, certain variants of Bouffalant, Druddigon, and Gallade, among others, are capable of achieving this handily.</p>

<p>Though more offensively oriented teams cannot typically give Crustle too much breathing room, as they cannot easily counteract the entry hazards it sets up midway through a game without sacrificing a substantial amount of offensive momentum, defensively oriented teams are somewhat less hard-pressed to restrict Crustle, allowing them the leniency to set up a few layers of entry hazards and spin them away at a later point in the game. In regards to Shell Smash variants, most are fairly easy to revenge kill once Sturdy has been broken, either through Choice Scarf users, such as Rotom, Rotom-C, and Durant, or priority users such as Absol and Kabutops. Furthermore, phazers such as Poliwrath and Steelix can typically prevent Crustle from leaving any sort of lasting impact in an offensive regard, though the damage it deals to them in exchange can at times put them in range of another sweeper, which is one of Crustle's primary goals, making it important to note the consequences of such a play.</p>