[Overview]

<p>Gorebyss is actually a pretty good Pokemon in RU; good Special Attack stat and decent bulk when coupled with Shell Smash, one of the best set up moves in the game is very threatening. Unfortunately it is almost completely outclassed by Omastar, a Pokemon with higher Special Attack, Speed, and bulk. The reduced Speed is especially significant, because even at +2, Gorebyss is outsped by Choice Scarf Rotom-C by one point. Gorebyss does have a few tricks up its sleeve to give it a slight niche over Omastar as a Shell Smash sweeper, including its sole Water-typing, which allows it to set up on certain Pokemon that Omastar cannot, and a wider movepool that give it some good coverage options. It is, however, very important to consider if Gorebyss is actually the right fit for your team, as more often than not you should just use Omastar.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Surf / Hydro Pump
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Shell Smash is the only reason there is to consider using Gorebyss, and this set gives it a small niche in RU. Modest Life Orb Gorebyss hits extremely hard after a boost, so Surf is chosen as the main STAB, but Hydro Pump can be used in the last slot if you want more power, as it guarantees the OHKO on Cryogonal after Stealth Rock and has a chance to OHKO without it. Shadow Ball is the one thing that distinguishes Gorebyss from Omastar, as it allows Gorebyss to OHKO Slowking after Stealth Rock 93.75% of the time. Ice Beam is the best option in the last slot, and allows Gorebyss to get around Amoonguss, Druddigon, and Roselia.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>At +2 with a neutral nature, Gorebyss is able to outspeed every unboosted threat in the tier barring Accelgor. However, with a Timid nature, Gorebyss can outspeed Choice Scarf Rotom-C if it carries Hidden Power Fire, but that isn't all that common. Modest Gorebyss is also necessary for the high chance to OHKO Slowking after Stealth Rock, and makes an OHKO on Cryogonal after Stealth Rock much more likely. Life Orb is chosen as the item for this set, as Gorebyss needs the extra power to secure a lot of OHKOs, but Lum Berry is a great alternative, making setting up on status-spreading walls, such as Uxie, easier. Signal Beam and Substitute can be run together over Shadow Ball and Ice Beam, as Water + Bug has great neutral coverage, and Substitute lets Gorebyss get around Sucker Punch Absol and set up on Qwilfish, Cryogonal, and Ferroseed if it lacks Seed Bomb. However, Signal Beam's low Base Power means a lower chance to OHKO Slowking, and without Ice Beam, Gorebyss is walled by the likes of Amoonguss and Roselia, which can shake off any of Gorebyss's other moves. Swift Swim is the chosen ability on this set, giving your team some extra insurance against rain teams.</p>

<p>Gorebyss really appreciates teammates that draw in moves it can set up on. Escavalier is a great choice for a partner, as it draws in Fire-type moves from opposing Emboar and Entei while having the bulk and power to take on many of the Pokemon that could revenge kill Gorebyss. Because Gorebyss is lowering its defenses, it also appreciates dual screens support, which aids in setup and prevents weaker priority from doing to much damage to Gorebyss. Uxie makes for a great partner, as it has access to both Reflect and Light Screen as well as U-turn or Memento to help get Gorebyss on the field.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gorebyss actually has a pretty wide movepool, which includes access to Baton Pass. Unfortunately for Gorebyss, Shell Smash and Baton Pass are illegal in Rarelyused, so it is limited to passing other moves. Gorebyss could be used on a Baton Pass team, as it has the ability to pass Agility, Amnesia, and Iron Defense, but these teams generally aren't very successful in RU. An offensive Rain Dance set could be used to take advantage of Swift Swim, but Shell Smash is superior, giving the same boost to Speed, more power, and no turn limit. A defensive Rain Dance set could be used in conjunction with Hydration and Rest, but due to Gorebyss being a Water-type, it tends to have really poor synergy with the sweepers it is setting up rain for.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It is far easier to prevent Gorebyss from setting up than it is to counter Gorebyss after it uses Shell Smash. Make sure you don't let Gorebyss in on any resisted Choice-locked move, as that will probably be devastating for your team. Ferroseed with Seed Bomb is probably your best response to a Gorebyss that has set up, as it can take any of its moves once and OHKO in return with Seed Bomb. Lanturn is in a similar position, being able to take any hit once and OHKO with Thunderbolt or Volt Switch. Another good option for preventing Gorebyss from sweeping your team is to revenge kill it. Accelgor, Jolly Choice Scarf Medicham, Choice Scarf Rotom, Choice Scarf Rotom-C, and Choice Scarf Manectric can all revenge kill Gorebyss after it has used Shell Smash, but you must first sacrifice something against Gorebyss to get them in.</p>