[Overview]

<p>Kadabra manages to carve itself a niche in RU thanks to its ability, Magic Guard, which protects it from all indirect damage, including entry hazards. This guarantees that it will live at least one hit if it holds a Focus Sash. Combine this with its excellent Special Attack and above-average Speed and Kadabra has all the makings of a good revenge killer. It can also provide Encore support. However, Sigilyph, Mesprit, and Jynx give it competition for its role as a specially attacking Psychic-type and tend to have an advantage due to their overall superior versatility. Even so, Kadabra's Speed, Special Attack, and ability are enough to set it apart from them.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Psychic / Psyshock
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Encore
item: Focus Sash
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Kadabra makes a good revenge killer thanks to its Special Attack, Speed, and excellent ability in Magic Guard. Focus Sash is what makes this set so effective, as it can revenge kill Pokemon even if the opponent is faster, and if it is kept intact, it can do the same thing more than once, or harm the next switch-in with its good coverage. Examples of sweepers that fall prey to Kadabra include Kabutops, Durant, -1 Gallade, and Omastar. Psychic is the preferred option for a STAB move as it hits most threats harder, with particular reference to the physically robust Omastar and Kabutops, but Psyshock can be used to defeat more specially defensive Pokemon such as Cryogonal. For its coverage moves, Shadow Ball lets Kadabra 2HKO many of the tier's Psychic-types, such as Uxie, Mesprit, and Sigilyph, while Hidden Power Fire allows Kadabra to consistently revenge kill Durant and Escavalier. Encore gives a way for Kadabra to lock opposing threats into ineffective moves such as support moves and Sucker Punch, giving a teammate the opportunity to set up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Modest is the primary choice for a nature as the two most common Pokemon that share Kadabra's base Speed are Manectric and Scyther, and due to the need to lower its IVs to use Hidden Power Fire, it gets outsped anyway. However, Timid is a viable option as well as it lets it beat Sigilyph 100% of the time with a combination of Shadow Ball and Encore. Kadabra pairs well with Pokemon such as Durant and Klinklang that can take advantage of Dark-types locked into Sucker Punch by setting up on them. Quiver Dance Lilligant can also utilize Encore support to set up and possibly sweep the opposing team. It also appreciates Kadabra's ability to lure in and get rid of Escavalier with Hidden Power Fire. Emboar makes for a great partner, as it is able to deal with Spiritomb and Absol, two major annoyances for Kadabra. Choice Band and mixed variants can wallbreak for Kadabra while Choice Scarf variants appreciate Kadabra's ability to revenge kill faster threats. Slow Volt Switch and U-turn users such as Lanturn and Eelektross can give it a free switch-in, making them great partners. Finally, Rhydon and Aggron can take out Mandibuzz, a great threat to Kadabra, making them decent partners. The former can set up Stealth Rock for it as well.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Life Orb is a usable option over Focus Sash, given that Kadabra's ability negates its recoil, but Kadabra prefers the safety net provided by Focus Sash, which allows it to revenge kill faster Pokemon as well. Calm Mind can be used to increase Kadabra's Special Attack to sky-high levels, but Kadabra isn't nearly bulky enough to act as a setup sweeper. Substitute prevents Kadabra from being revenge killed, but just about everything breaks Kadabra's Substitutes due to its horrible bulk and Focus Sash already does the same job. It can be used relatively effectively in conjunction with Life Orb, though. Energy Ball hits Kabutops and Omastar harder, but provides poor coverage otherwise. Dual screens can be used, but Kadabra is still very frail even with screens up and it has better things to be doing with those turns. Signal Beam hits Psychic- and Dark-types hard, but Shadow Ball along with Hidden Power Fire already covers the threats Signal Beam otherwise would, and more importantly, it misses out on Sigilyph. Trick Room can be set up reliably by Kadabra due to Focus Sash, after which it can proceed to let slower Pokemon come in under Trick Room, but it's too fast to utilize it itself. It should be noted, however, that Kadabra isn't the one that is supposed to be utilizing Trick Room, but rather a suicide setter in this case.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Spiritomb is the ultimate counter to Kadabra; it can take anything Kadabra throws at it and can proceed to bring it down to its Focus Sash, from where it can pick it off with a STAB priority move of choice. Notably, it has STAB on Pursuit and Shadow Sneak, so can limit Kadabra's options greatly. Mandibuzz is a great counter as well; it can take all of Kadabra's hits and can hit it hard with Brave Bird or Foul Play. Pokemon that use multi-hit moves, such as Cinccino, Rhydon, and Klinklang, can KO Kadabra through its Focus Sash, with the former outspeeding it and the latter two having enough bulk to take a hit from it. Slowking can take anything Kadabra throws at it with ease and can keep healthy for the entirety of the match with Slack Off and Regenerator. Most priority moves can OHKO Kadabra provided its Focus Sash is broken, most notably ExtremeSpeed from Entei and Shadow Sneak from the previously mentioned Spiritomb. Both offensive and defensive variants of Drapion do well against Kadabra, with the added benefit of being able to Pursuit trap it. Cryogonal can take anything Kadabra throws at it, provided it lacks Psyshock, and can 2HKO it with Ice Beam while regaining any lost health with Recover. Pokemon such as Clefable, Bouffalant, and Druddigon can take one hit and OHKO Kadabra, but cannot do so if its Focus Sash is intact, and the latter must be wary of being locked into Sucker Punch.</p>