[Overview]

<p>In spite of Masquerain's underwhelming stats and appearance, it manages to carve itself a small niche in the tier as a Quiver Dance passer. The only other Pokemon in RU that has access to this combination is Smeargle, which has no resistances, offensive presence, or bulk to help pull it off. Masquerain, on the other hand has usable special bulk, Intimidate, and useful resistances to Grass-, Fighting-, and Bug-type moves, as well as an immunity to Ground to aid in setup. Its Bug / Flying typing also has major drawbacks including taking 50% damage from Stealth Rock and a weakness to many common attacking moves. Masquerain requires a lot of support to perform its role, so Masquerain requires a team built around itself that helps it function. If properly supported, however, it can help a teammate plow through the opposition. It should really be emphasized, though, that because of Masquerain's low Special Attack and Speed stats, pulling off a sweep on its own is very unlikely and it should stick to supporting its teammates.</p>

[SET]
name: Quiver Pass
move 1: Quiver Dance
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Roost
move 4: Bug Buzz
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate
nature: Timid
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Quiver Dance is the most important move on this set, as there is no other reason to even consider using Masquerain. Baton Pass is what differentiates Masquerain from the other Flying / Bug types with access to Quiver Dance, as it is outclassed as a Quiver Dance sweeper by Butterfree. Most of the time you will want to send Masquerain in on a resisted hit or on a Ground-type move, use Quiver Dance, and then Baton Pass out to a sweeper of choice. Roost is a good choice on this set, as it allows Masquerain to set up multiple boosts on defensive Pokemon without getting worn down too quickly. Bug Buzz is used in the last slot, as it is Masquerain's strongest STAB move. It also gets pretty good neutral coverage in RU and hits many of the top threats super effectively.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread along with a Timid nature allow Masquerain to make a quick escape after it has used Quiver Dance while retaining as much bulk as possible. Masquerain also has access to Scald, which could be used over Roost because it has nice coverage alongside Bug Buzz and can create more setup opportunities for Masquerain if it manages to burn the opponent. Hydro Pump is another option in this moveslot, as it does a minimum of 75% damage to Steelix, thus preventing a weakened Steelix from Phazing Masquerain out. Substitute is also a decent replacement for Roost, as Baton Passing a Substitute can often be as helpful as Baton Passing a Quiver Dance. Air Slash can be used in the last slot over Bug Buzz as it also has decent neutral coverage along with an additional chance to flinch, but the higher damage output provided Bug Buzz is usually more useful.</p>

<p>Picking out teammates for Masquerain is even more important than picking the last two moves on the set, as Masquerain requires a lot of support and can turn a teammate into a potent sweeper. Kabutops has really good synergy with Masquerain and can help keep Stealth Rock off your side of the field. Cryogonal is another good choice for a spinner, but it does not have as good synergy with Masquerain as Kabutops does. The most important thing to decide when using Masquerain is what Pokemon you want to receive the Quiver Dance boost. Eviolite Magneton is a good choice for a Baton Pass recipient, as it can switch in on the Rock-, Electric-, and Ice-type moves aimed at Masquerain and is an extremely potent sweeper with boosted Speed and Special Attack. Typhlosion, Manectric, and Sceptile are all really good choices to receive the Quiver Dance boosts, but must be careful switching in, as they are somewhat frail. Moltres would probably be the best Pokemon to Baton Pass to in RU, except it has poor synergy with Masquerain and a massive Stealth Rock weakness, which makes switching in difficult. However, if Moltres manages to get in safely, it has the best movepool and stats to sweep with the Quiver Dance boost, as nothing can switch into a Moltres with +1 Special Attack.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Masquerain could attempt to pull of a Quiver Dance sweep with both STAB moves and Hydro Pump, but due to its low Speed and Special Attack, it will really struggle to get past bulky teams. A Choice Specs or Choice Scarf set with U-turn, Air Slash, Bug Buzz, and Hydro Pump can be used, but both are too slow and weak to function in RU. Masquerain has a ton of coverage options in its movepool such as Ice Beam, Shadow Ball, and Hidden Power, but these moves don't really hit anything significant and Masquerain doesn't have the moveslots to run them. Masquerain can attempt to run an support pivot set, as it has cool support moves like Stun Spore and Haze, but it doesn't have the bulk to pull this off even with Intimidate. Baton Passing Agility is also an option for Masquerain, but many other Pokemon have access to that combination and are superior to Masquerain.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Haze Cryogonal is undoubtedly the best counter to Masquerain in the tier; it can shake off any attack thrown at by Masquerain and undo any boosts it has attained with Haze. Aerodactyl outspeeds Masquerain even after a boost and can OHKO with Stone Edge. Sceptile can also outspeed a +1 boosted Masquerain and OHKO with Hidden Power Rock, but cannot switch in on either of Masquerain's STAB moves. Choice Band Entei is a really good choice for dealing with Masquerain, as ExtremeSpeed OHKOes Masquerain with a little prior damage, preventing it from getting off the Baton Pass. If Masquerain does manage to Baton Pass to its intended recipient, it will be much harder to counter than Masquerain itself. Clefable and Lanturn are good general special walls that can paralyze your opponent's Pokemon before they have a chance to sweep your team. Keeping Stealth Rock on the field really limits Masquerain's ability to set up, and is sometimes enough to prevent the opposing Masquerain from setting up at all.</p>