[Overview]

<p>Mesprit is one of the more versatile Pokemon in the RU metagame. With well-rounded stats, a solid offensive movepool, and a good support movepool, it can take on quite a few roles effectively; for example, Mesprit can support its team, sweep, or even break down defensive cores depending on its set. Its ability to check powerful Pokemon such as Slowking, Gallade, and Sigilyph while keeping up offensive pressure is a big key in differentiating itself from the many other Psychic-types in the tier such as Uxie and Slowking. Mesprit also has Levitate, which lets it get a free pass on Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Ground-type moves, thus making it a better user of U-turn than most other Pokemon in the tier. However, a lack of reliable recovery, a Pursuit weakness, and having only decent Speed leaves Mesprit vulnerable to being worn down or revenge killed by the many offensive Pokemon in the tier. Mesprit's Psychic typing not only leaves it weak to Pursuit, but it also leaves the pixie weak to Bug-type moves from the likes of Galvantula, Durant, and Escavalier. Mesprit's stat distribution, while solid overall, leaves it without a true "standout" stat, meaning that no single set can threaten multiple types of team at the same time. Even so, Mesprit's versatility can give your opponent a headache as they attempt to work out what set it could be running. Mesprit is a versatile Psychic-type and can support its team in multiple ways, so always give it some consideration when building a team.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Stealth Rock
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Thunderbolt / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: U-turn / Healing Wish
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is very flexible in how it can be played, so it can be described as Mesprit's most balanced set. Stealth Rock is needed for any team and Mesprit can use its resistances to Psychic- and Fighting-type moves to easily come in and set up the entry hazard with few issues. Psychic provides Mesprit with a solid STAB option to take down the Fighting-types that it naturally checks. Thunderbolt is generally preferred for Mesprit's coverage move on this set as it allows Mesprit to hit Sigilyph and Slowking really hard. However, if these Psychic-types are not a problem for your team, Hidden Power Fire is a solid alternative as it hits Escavalier, Steelix, and Ferroseed much harder than Mesprit's other moves. The last slot allows Mesprit to provide extra team support. U-turn generally gets the nod to let Mesprit act as a better pivot throughout the match. If that doesn't appeal to the needs of your team that much, then Healing Wish is an option worth considering. Although Mesprit loses some mid-game utility, it can sacrifice itself to bring back a weakened teammate late-game to possibly win the match.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is simply meant to maximize Mesprit's offensive presence, but there are some other Speed benchmarks you can consider if you'd prefer to use some EVs for HP to bulk Mesprit up. 216 Speed EVs are required in order to outspeed positive base 75s such as Absol and Smeargle, while 164 Speed EVs will keep Mesprit a step ahead of neutral-natured base 80s such as Kabutops and Gallade. If you opt to use Hidden Power Fire, you will have to compensate with 4 additional EVs in Speed as the move requires an imperfect Speed IV. It is not recommended to drop Mesprit's Speed EVs below 164 as it would then be outclassed by its cousin, Uxie. Leftovers is Mesprit's only form of recovery, so it's the held item of choice on this set. Colbur Berry is a decent alternative to let Mesprit have a bit more safety in the presence of Pursuit users such as Spiritomb and Escavalier. Lum Berry is another option as it lets Mesprit effectively shut down opposing Smeargle leads by outspeeding it and shrugging off a Spore with the Lum Berry. Finally, a Life Orb can be used to increase damage output, but this significantly lowers Mesprit's staying power and will make U-turn more of a liability. Ice Beam is another option to consider to hit Rhydon and Golurk harder than any other move while it also gets a slightly harder hit on Grass-types than Hidden Power Fire would. Psyshock is an alternative STAB move that hits special walls harder and allows Mesprit to handle Gallade more easily.</p>

<p>Fighting-types generally pair well with Mesprit, as they can take the Bug- and Dark-type moves aimed at Mesprit, while Mesprit can check most of the Psychic-types that threaten them. Emboar and Hitmonlee in particular both appreciate Mesprit being able to wear down the likes of Slowking and Sigilyph over the course of the match. Aggron is another useful offensive partner that has the added benefit of being able to handle the Ghost-type moves Mesprit dislikes, while Mesprit is able to handle both of Aggron's 4x weaknesses quite nicely. Spikes users can pair well with Mesprit, as the latter can utilize U-turn to get them in on favorable match-ups, making their job easier. Ferroseed and Qwilfish are sturdier Spikes users that provide solid defensive synergy with Mesprit, while Scolipede and Omastar are more offensive options. Thanks to Mesprit's rare combination of Stealth Rock and offensive presence, it can easily find a home on VoltTurn teams as a bulky pivot that provides said offensive presence and Stealth Rock support in one slot. Magneton, Braviary, Rotom-C, and Primeape are all solid options as partners on VoltTurn teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psyshock / Psychic
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Ice Beam
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 32 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA / 220 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set uses Mesprit's great coverage and solid base 105 Special Attack stat to become a solid setup sweeper. Calm Mind is Mesprit's only boosting move, and allows Mesprit to boost its Special Attack, while simultaneously boosting Special Defense to make it harder for opposing special attackers to revenge kill. Psyshock is the preferred STAB move in order to hit special walls such as Cryogonal and Clefable that would otherwise handle this set, but Psychic is a decent alternative in order to hit Rhydon and Tangrowth much harder. Thunderbolt is necessary to get past Slowking, a very common Pokemon that is able to stand up to most other special attacking Psychic-types. The last move lets Mesprit hit Grass-types such as Tangrowth for heavy damage regardless of which one you pick. Hidden Power Fire is preferred though so Mesprit can handle the likes of Ferroseed, Steelix, and Escavalier. Ice Beam is an alternative to hit Rhydon, Druddigon, and Golurk harder than any other move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes damage output while accounting for the imperfect Speed IV required by Hidden Power Fire by using enough Speed EVs to outpace positive base 75s such as Absol and Smeargle. 4 EVs are shifted from HP to Defense in order to hit a Life Orb number. If you opt for Ice Beam, place the HP and Defense EVs into Speed, while leaving 4 EVs in HP. In terms of ideal teammates, a check to Spiritomb is very important to have, as Spiritomb can take any move from this set and checkmate Mesprit between Sucker Punch and Pursuit. Aggron and Emboar can both handle Spiritomb's moves quite nicely and weaken it and other defensive cores to set the stage for Mesprit to sweep later. Drapion isn't as common as Spiritomb, but its typing and decent special bulk mean it can take a hit or two from Mesprit and retaliate with a STAB Crunch. More offensive variants of Drapion will outspeed Mesprit as well. Steel-types such as Steelix and Escavalier can generally handle Drapion without too many issues. Uxie has enough bulk to handle multiple hits from Mesprit and either cripple it with Thunder Wave or force it out with Yawn. Escavalier is a perfect answer to Uxie as it doesn't mind paralysis, can use Sleep Talk to deal with a possible Yawn, and has Pursuit to ensure Uxie can't escape without taking heavy damage. Entry hazard support is nice to have to ensure that Rhydon and bulky Gallade are OHKOed by +1 Ice Beam and Psyshock, respectively. Steelix and Rhydon can take on most of the physical attackers that usually come in to revenge kill Mesprit, and can also set up Stealth Rock. Qwilfish is able to check Durant, Escavalier, and Choice Scarf Emboar, while setting up Spikes against them. Smeargle, Omastar, Ferroseed, and Golurk can also support Mesprit in various ways while also supplying entry hazards.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Psyshock / Psychic
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Hidden Power Fire / Ice Beam
move 4: U-turn / Ice Beam / Trick
item: Choice Specs
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 36 HP / 252 SpA / 220 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set gives up the ability to switch moves in exchange for an immediate power boost. Choice Specs Mesprit doesn't have the raw power of other Choice Specs users such as Moltres, Typhlosion, and Tangrowth, but it is a great offensive pivot with impressive coverage and sufficient power to be threatening. Psyshock is the chosen STAB move to get past the likes of Cryogonal, Clefable, and Gallade with much greater ease. Psychic can be used if your team has issues with Rhydon and Tangrowth, but the ability to break down special walls without the need of a physical move is something few other Choice Specs users have. Thunderbolt is necessary in order to deal serious damage to Slowking while OHKOing the likes of offensive Sigilyph, Kabutops, and Crawdaunt. Hidden Power Fire gets the nod in the next slot to handle Steel-types such as Steelix, Escavalier, and Ferroseed that can handle Mesprit's other moves. Ice Beam is a decent alternative to hit Rhydon, Golurk, and Druddigon super effectively. Both moves hit important Grass-types such as Tangrowth. U-turn rounds out the set by making Mesprit a great offensive pivot and scouting for its checks and counters. Ice Beam can be used here to maximize coverage if it isn't used over Hidden Power Fire already. Trick is also a decent option, although Mesprit will rarely want to lose its Choice Specs.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread lets Mesprit outspeed positive base 75s such as Smeargle and Absol while accounting for the imperfect Speed IV required for Hidden Power Fire. You can maximize Speed if Hidden Power Fire isn't used, but the EV spread given already lets Mesprit outspeed what it needs to while serving as a solid offensive pivot. Timid is preferred so Mesprit can run the small amount of HP EVs needed to ensure Life Orb Gallade and Choice Scarf Medicham fail to 2HKO with Close Combat and Hi Jump Kick, respectively.</p>

<p>Entry hazard support, and Spikes in particular, is very useful to ensure Rhydon and specially defensive Gallade are OHKOed by Ice Beam and Psyshock respectively after 3 layers of Spikes and Stealth Rock (assuming a Timid nature). Ferroseed and Qwilfish both share good defensive synergy with Mesprit and are able to set up Spikes. Scolipede is a more offensive Spikes user that can weaken opposing Psychic-types with its STAB Megahorn. Stealth Rock support ensures that Magmortar and Moltres are OHKOed by Psyshock, making Stealth Rock setters such as Rhydon and Golurk solid partners for this set. Escavalier can be taken care of by Hidden Power Fire, but it doesn't fear much of anything else on this set. For this reason, mixed variants of Druddigon and Absol can be used as partners to lure Escavalier in and KO it with their powerful Fire-type coverage moves. Emboar and Moltres can switch into Escavalier thanks to their 4x resistance to Bug and quickly force it out with the threat of a powerful Fire-type STAB move, making them great ways to deal with Escavalier as well. As Mesprit has good synergy with most physically based wallbreakers, said wallbreakers can form an excellent wallbreaking core. Mixed and Choice Band Emboar, Escavalier, and Aggron all provide solid defensive synergy with Mesprit while putting significant pressure on opposing teams. Mesprit's U-turn can also get them in on favorable match-ups to heighten their effectiveness. VoltTurn teams can also make good use of Choice Specs Mesprit thanks to its ability to pivot into and out of attacks. Magneton, Rotom-C, Primeape, and Braviary are all solid partners on such teams. Magneton deserves a special mention, as it can trap and remove Steel-types for Mesprit. Finally, fast special attackers, such as Sceptile and Accelgor, can be used to clean up late-game after Mesprit has broken down the opposing defensive core.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Calm Mind
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Psyshock
move 4: Thunderbolt / Ice Beam
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 40 HP / 252 SpA / 216 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Mesprit is commonly seen using Calm Mind in a more offensively inclined fashion, it is certainly capable of using its acceptable bulk and solid resistances to use Calm Mind in a more defensive approach. Mesprit's superior immediate power and access to Ice Beam is what sets this apart from Uxie. Substitute protects Mesprit against status moves and, more importantly, Sucker Punch from the likes of Absol and Spiritomb. Calm Mind allows Mesprit to boosts its Special Attack to threatening levels, while also making it harder for special attackers to break Mesprit's Substitutes thanks to the Special Defense boost. Psyshock provides Mesprit with a reliable STAB move and gives it a way to beat special walls and opposing Calm Mind users. Thunderbolt gives Mesprit solid two-move coverage between it and Psyshock by hitting the likes of Slowking and Sigilyph hard. Ice Beam is an alternative to hit Rhydon, Golurk, Steelix, and most Grass-types much harder.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread allows Mesprit to outspeed positive base 75s, most notably Absol and Smeargle. Maximum investment in Special Attack is used to let Mesprit hit as hard as possible, with the remaining EVs going into HP to give Mesprit a little more bulk. You can opt to maximize Speed in order to tie with other positive base 80s, but the primary need for this Mesprit is to outspeed Absol and Smeargle so it can play around them with Substitute, so any further Speed EVs tend to be unnecessary. Psychic is an alternative STAB option that can hit Rhydon and Tangrowth hard without having to resort to Ice Beam.</p>

<p>Mesprit won't have full coverage owing to the need to use Substitute, so teammates that can cover these holes are necessary. Samurott is a fantastic partner, as it can use a mixed set to break down most of Mesprit's defensive checks, such as Steelix and Regirock, while also being able to carry Ice Beam itself to handle Tangrowth, Druddigon, and others. Escavalier, Magneton, and Spiritomb can all handle this set well. To combat them, Emboar and Entei can be used, and have the added benefit of being able to threaten special walls in general. Regirock isn't a very common threat, but its solid mixed defenses let it hold up against Mesprit quite easily. Grass-types such as Rotom-C, Torterra, and Sceptile are able to deal with Regirock and can also deal with bulky Water-types such as Slowking if Mesprit forgoes Thunderbolt. This set lacks immediate powerwhen compared to Mesprit's other offensive sets, so entry hazards are helpful to mitigate this issue. Rhydon and Steelix are able to handle the majority of physical attackers in the tier and set up Stealth Rock. Qwilfish is able to check Escavalier, Entei, and Durant fairly well, and can set up Spikes to limit their opportunities to switch in. Finally, Pursuit support is nice for Mesprit in order to remove bulky Psychic-types such as Uxie, Slowking, and opposing Mesprit. Escavalier fears very little from these Psychic-types and has the bulk to take any coverage move from them barring Fire-type moves. Absol might lack the bulk of Escavalier, but it has the added benefit of being able to run Fire Blast to catch Tangrowth, Escavalier, and Ferroseed on the switch for major damage.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Mesprit's movepool is fairly wide, so it stands to reason that there are quite a few options to consider. With Mesprit's great coverage and utility options, one might wonder why a Choice Scarf set isn't viable. This is due in large part to Mesprit's only above average Special Attack and consequently the fact that it can't deter most Pursuit users from coming in without a boost to its Special Attack in some way. Mesprit's base 80 Speed isn't terribly high, so one might be inclined to try a Trick Room set. While Mesprit's access to Healing Wish does set it apart from other Trick Room setters, its base 80 Speed is still a little too fast and lets two of Mesprit's best checks, Escavalier and Spiritomb, outspeed it. Mesprit has a decent physical movepool which includes Zen Headbutt and the elemental punches. However, Mesprit's only means of boosting its physical attack is through the use of a Choice Band, and the use of Psyshock on special sets can usually accomplish everything a Choice Band set could and more. Signal Beam and Shadow Ball can provide extra coverage, but they are generally not as useful as Mesprit's primary coverage options.</p>

<p>Mesprit's support movepool has some options as well. Like most other Psychic-types, Mesprit can use dual screens and its access to Healing Wish can be helpful late-game. Mesprit also has access to Rain Dance and Sunny Day. While Mesprit may have better offensive prowess for such sets, these types of sets generally require Speed and bulk, and Mesprit is outclassed by Uxie in both departments. Thunder Wave can cripple fast attackers attempting to revenge kill Mesprit, but Uxie and Slowking can do this better. Knock Off can remove items from Pokemon such as Ferroseed, Magneton, and Steelix, but Mesprit struggles to find space for it. A set consisting of Trick and a Flame Orb can be used to cripple two of Mesprit's best checks, Spiritomb and Escavalier, but it's a single use combination and the surprise element is gone once Flame Orb activates on Mesprit. Lastly, Mesprit's only reliable form of recovery is to use RestTalk; however, the BW sleep mechanics make this hard to pull off, as Mesprit has exploitable weaknesses and only above average bulk.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Spiritomb is generally a very safe response to Mesprit. It's immune to Mesprit's Psychic-type STAB moves and isn't weak to any of the pixie's coverage moves either. Spiritomb's access to both Sucker Punch and Pursuit puts Mesprit in a terrible situation. Escavalier has to fear HiddenPower Fire, but Occa Berry variants can take the move and retaliate with a powerful STAB Megahorn or Pursuit should Mesprit try to switch out. Absol is a more offensive response that can take down Mesprit with Sucker Punch or Pursuit, but its fraility can often hinder its ability to switch in. Any Mesprit set that lacks Psyshock can be beaten by special walls such as Clefable and Cryogonal. Sturdy Steel-types such as Magneton, Steelix, and Ferroseed can beat most Mesprit that lack Hidden Power Fire. Klinklang is a Steel-type that can not only check Mesprit, but also use the pixie as setup fodder should it lack Hidden Power Fire. Regirock might not be very common in RU, but its solid mixed defenses and lack of a weakness to any of Mesprit's common moves make it a solid check to Mesprit. However, its lack of reliable recovery can catch up with Regirock should it be relied upon too much.</p>

<p>Faster Bug- and Ghost-type Pokemon will rarely be able to switch into Mesprit, but they are more than capable of preying on its weaknesses after a KO. Scolipede, Durant, and Rotom can all come in after a KO to do serious damage to Mesprit if it isn't behind a Substitute. Pokemon that can outspeed Mesprit and hit it hard can generally overpower the pixie and its above average bulk. Entei, Tauros, and Moltres are examples of such Pokemon, but most of them will have trouble switching into Mesprit. Mesprit's lack of reliable recovery will ultimately be its downfall against teams that use constant offensive pressure, but do be aware that Mesprit can use the common Fighting-, Ground-, and Psychic-type moves used in the tier to get an easy switch-in opportunity.</p>