[Overview]

<p>Murkrow is a curious case and a classic example of how great abilities can give a Pokemon reliable niches. Murkrow has decent but not amazing offensive stats and can hold Eviolite thanks to its NFE status, but has fairly low defensive stats. However, Murkrow was blessed with two great abilities to work with: Prankster and Insomnia. Murkrow can take advantage of Prankster with its support movepool, which contains moves such as Taunt, Roost, Thunder Wave, and Toxic. With Insomnia and its ability to outpace all common sleep inducers with full Speed investment, Murkrow can take an offensive approach, with access to two great STAB moves in Brave Bird and Sucker Punch as well as a great coverage move in Heat Wave. However, most defensive Murkrow sets are virtually powerless against dangerous Steel-types such as Escavalier, Aggron, and Durant, while offensive variants have an incredibly difficult time switching in. Murkrow has some serious flaws, but as long as you focus on utilizing its unique abilities to let it shine, it can surprise quite a few opponents with its effectiveness.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Brave Bird
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Heat Wave
move 4: Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Insomnia
nature: Naive
evs: 240 Atk / 16 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With 85 / 85 offenses, Murkrow might not seem like a great mixed attacker, but its expansive movepool allows it to fill the role quite well. The biggest keys to this set lie in Insomnia and Murkrow's base 91 Speed, which lets it outpace every common sleep inducer in the tier. Brave Bird is Murkrow's primary STAB move; with 120 Base Power and a STAB boost, it hits with more than enough force to seriously dent and KO what it needs to. Sucker Punch is a nice secondary STAB move that allows Murkrow to derail the plans of opposing revenge killers while also hitting faster Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Rotom and Sigilyph. Heat Wave provides Murkrow with much-needed coverage and allows it to hammer Escavalier, Ferroseed, and most Steel-types in general. Hidden Power Grass fills in the last slot to handle the likes of Rhydon, Alomomola, and Quagsire.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Speed is maximized as Murkrow sits just above one of the more important Speed benchmarks in RU: the base 90 Speed crowd, which includes Lilligant and Moltres. 16 Special Attack EVs are needed to ensure that Alomomola is 2HKOed by Hidden Power Grass after Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes. The remaining EVs are thrown into Attack to juice up the power of Murkrow's STAB moves. There are some alternatives to Hidden Power Grass if you have the targets of the move covered on your team. Hidden Power Ground is a noteworthy option, if only to deal with Aggron before it KOes Murkrow or a teammate attempting to cover for it. Prankster in conjunction with Thunder Wave or Tailwind can be very useful should Murkrow not be of much use. A quick Thunder Wave can save your team from a game-ending sweep whereas Tailwind can let a slower teammate such as Gallade, Samurott, or Medicham easily clean up the opposing team with a temporary +2 boost to its Speed. If Hidden Power Grass is replaced by any of these moves, you should simply maximize Attack and leave 4 EVs in Special Attack. Dark Pulse is an alternative STAB option that makes Murkrow less vulnerable to burns and gives it an easier time with Rotom. Finally, Expert Belt is an option as Murkrow gains nice super effective coverage in RU, and the lack of Life Orb recoil can sometimes keep it around for an extra turn or two when it's forced to use Brave Bird a lot.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock support is necessary to secure the OHKO on Moltres with Brave Bird and Escavalier with Heat Wave. Uxie is a great option for this as it can use Yawn and U-turn to give Murkrow easy opportunities to switch in. Murkrow has very good coverage against common defensive cores, so teammates that can sweep opposing teams that have had their defensive core weakened are good options. Emboar and Moltres can flourish when opposing Water- and Rock-types have been weakened. Physical Water-types such as Feraligatr, Samurott, and Crawdaunt have an easier time once bulky Grass-types have been weakened or KOed. Swellow and Choice Scarf Braviary are fast Flying-types that can do serious damage to teams after their Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon are weakened. Finally, it would be a good idea to use Spikes support when running Hidden Power Grass to ensure the 2HKO on Alomomola and the OHKO on Quagsire. Faster Spikes users such as Scolipede, Smeargle, and Omastar are typically the way to go as Murkrow should be used on offensive-minded teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Stallbreaker
move 1: Taunt
move 2: Roost
move 3: Toxic / Thunder Wave
move 4: Foul Play / Feather Dance
item: Eviolite
ability: Prankster
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Murkrow has relatively low defensive stats, but thanks to Prankster and its ability to hold Eviolite, it can pull off a stallbreaker set. It must be stressed that Murkrow's defenses are above average at best, even with Eviolite, so it should not be counted on to straight-up wall threats. Taunt is amazing on any Pokemon with Prankster, and Murkrow is no different. Thanks to the priority boost, Murkrow can easily Taunt virtually any Pokemon to disrupt and annoy it. This cuts off the recovery and supporting methods of defensive Pokemon and keeps offensive Pokemon from setting up on Murkrow. Roost gives Murkrow reliable recovery and temporarily removes Murkrow's weaknesses to Rock-, Ice-, and Electric-type moves. The next slot allows Murkrow to cripple certain Pokemon. Toxic in conjunction with Taunt can quickly wear down opposing defensive walls as they slowly lose health with no way to use their recovery moves. Alternatively, Thunder Wave can cripple opposing sweepers, and Taunt can keep them from setting up. The last move deals with physical attackers. Foul Play is generally preferred as Murkrow can hit most of the tier for decent damage with it. However, FeatherDance is an option to cut an opponent's Attack stat and allow Murkrow or a teammate to more easily take hits from it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Murkrow's physical bulk while reducing the damage it takes from Stealth Rock. If you choose to run FeatherDance over Foul Play, it is better to run a Calm nature and invest fully in Special Defense. Murkrow can run a couple of other moves in the last slot. Brave Bird can handle Amoonguss, Roselia, and Clefable more reliably, but be sure to run an Impish nature so as to not gimp its power. Substitute can block attacks from weaker defensive Pokemon, but leaves Murkrow total Taunt bait. Finally, Hidden Power Ground can be used to do something to Steel- and Poison-types, as Murkrow is generally powerless against them.</p>

<p>Murkrow has a difficult time dealing with most Steel- and Poison-type Pokemon, so Steelix is a great partner as it can handle many of them. It can also provide phazing and Stealth Rock support. Slowking can handle both physical and special attacks, and is perfectly capable of running the status move Murkrow elects not to run. Entry hazard support is excellent, as Spikes punishes the switches that Murkrow can cause with its antics, while Toxic Spikes can free up a moveslot for Murkrow to use Brave Bird or Hidden Power Ground. Qwilfish and Roselia can utilize both types of Spikes and can check various threats that Murkrow can't handle. Qwilfish is able to take on Escavalier and Durant reliably, while Roselia can deal with Rotom-C and Manectric lacking Flamethrower. Cleric support can be worthwhile as well since many defensive Pokemon can throw out Scald or Sludge Bomb with little risk. Clefable and Miltank can run Heal Bell and can provide other forms of support,with Wish and Stealth Rock, respectively. Thanks to Murkrow's ability to stall out and weaken many defensive Pokemon, offensive Pokemon can benefit from Murkrow's support. Psychic-types that use Calm Mind, such as Uxie, Sigilyph, and Mesprit, enjoy Murkrow's ability to reliably wear down specially defensive Spiritomb. If Murkrow can weaken Alomomola and Quagsire enough, strong physical attackers such as Tauros can lay waste to the remains of a team.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Murkrow has a surprisingly wide movepool, so there are certainly some options that can be considered. Murkrow can use a combination of Thunder Wave and Confuse Ray to make an annoying but inconsistent parafusion set. Foul Play and Swagger is another combination that can be used in tandem with Prankster. However, such as set is largely outclassed by Liepard. Murkrow's only boosting move is Calm Mind, but it's much too frail to try to sweep. Haze is a neat support option to put a fast stop to most sweepers, but Thunder Wave will usually suffice for this. Murkrow can utilize Perish Song and Mean Look together, but this takes two turns just to set up and Gothorita can enter the battlefield and trap what it wants without taking up any moveslots or extra turns. Murkrow can use Rain Dance or Sunny Day with the appropriate weather item, but Uxie, Volbeat, and Whimsicott are much better weather setters. Uxie and Whimsicott have access to Memento and U-turn to bring in weather sweepers safely, while Volbeat has Prankster Encore to force defensive Pokemon into useless moves to allow weather sweepers to come in. Night Shade can be used for consistent damage, but Foul Play is usually good enough. Mirror Move, Torment, and Whirlwind are extremely situational moves that Murkrow has access to, but they are generally outclassed by other moves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Murkrow isn't the easiest thing to counter as its sets play extremely differently from each other, but Aggron is one of the safest responses to it. Outside of the rare Hidden Power Ground, Aggron can come in on virtually any move Murkrow commonly uses and nuke something with a powerful Head Smash. In general, hard-hitting attackers that can either outspeed Murkrow or tank a hit fare well against it. Druddigon, Occa Berry Escavalier, and Tauros don't fear a lot and can use their powerful STAB moves to overwhelm either set. Magneton 4x resists Brave Bird, resists Sucker Punch, can stomach a Heat Wave, and can retaliate with a powerful STAB Thunderbolt or Volt Switch. It's also immune to Toxic from the stallbreaker set. Alomomola only fears Toxic and Hidden Power Grass from the mixed attacker set, and can scout the set with Protect and switch out to a more favorable response if need be. Aerodactyl can come in on Brave Bird and use Roost on the forced Sucker Punch, but it must be wary of Thunder Wave. Regirock isn't common, but it has great mixed defenses to take on the mixed attacker set and has Clear Body to deal with the stallbreaker set if Murkrow tries to be cute with FeatherDance. Piloswine is even rarer than Regirock, but it destroys Murkrow thanks to Thick Fat negating its weakness to Heat Wave and its Eviolite-boosted defenses.</p>

<p>The stallbreaker set is crippled by any Trick user, as losing its Eviolite means disaster. Most Steel- and Poison-type Pokemon can beat the stallbreaker set as well, but note that more defensive ones such as Steelix and Ferroseed can be effectively stalled out thanks to Gyro Ball's low PP. The mixed attacker set can be revenge killed by virtually anything that can survive or navigate around Sucker Punch. Durant, Sceptile, Manectric, Choice Scarf Emboar, and Choice Scarf Rotom-C can successfully handle Sucker Punch. However, none of them can switch in reliably and only Rotom-C can reliably take on the stallbreaker set. Status conditions, especially burns, can cripple either set and turn the mixed attacker into a liability if it doesn't run Dark Pulse. However, Prankster Taunt from the stallbreaker set can make this approach a bit more challenging than it might seem.</p>