[Overview]

<p>In a tier with plenty of viable Grass-types available, one might wonder how a Pokemon like Shiftry might stand out with its modest base stats. However, Shiftry has plenty of things going for it in the current metagame. Blessed with an outstanding offensive typing, shared only by Cacturne, and good physical and special prowess, Shiftry proves to be a versatile Pokemon. Shiftry is capable of pressuring the opponents to try and play around it, not knowing what set it might be running. Common defensive Pokemon such as Slowking and Clefable are smashed by Shiftry, making it a formidable wallbreaker. Its ability to bypass bulky opponents that its competition cannot effectively do makes it stand out from the pack.</p>

<p>However, this nutcracker isn't exactly the toughest to crack. It has terrible bulk, meaning any strong attack will bring Shiftry down quickly. Its great offensive typing also curses it with weaknesses to the common Bug-, Fire-, and Fighting-type moves found in the tier. The few Pokemon that can defeat Shiftry are common and they handle it extremely well, meaning it usually will not be able to function without proper team support. Finally, Shiftry Speed ties with common Pokemon such as Kabutops, Gallade, and Mesprit, causing it to run into many 50-50 situations where luck will determine whether Shiftry wins or loses. However, if you want something that can reliably do its part for your team, whether it be cleanup late-game or cripple opposing walls, you should definitely consider Shiftry.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Seed Bomb
move 4: Nature Power
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry
ability: Early Bird
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Swords Dance Shiftry is an effective late-game sweeper, as its typing allows it to take on a wide array of Pokemon in the tier after a Swords Dance boost. It is one of the few viable Pokemon that gets STAB Sucker Punch, meaning it has strong priority that allows it to pick off the remaining members of your opponent's team. Seed Bomb is a reliable Grass-type STAB move that hits many Pokemon that other Swords Dance sweepers such as Absol can't take on such as Poliwrath and Alomomola. Nature Power always turns into Earthquake, and is Shiftry's best option in taking down Fire-types like Entei while also dealing solid damage to Steel-types such as Steelix and Klinklang.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Early Bird is the most useful of Shiftry's abilities, giving it less hassle with sleep inducers like Lilligant carrying Hidden Power Rock. Chlorophyll is a decent option if Shiftry is being used on a sun team, but that is a harder archetype to play with in the current metagame. Life Orb is given to Shiftry to allow it to deal heavy damage and use its powerful moves interchangeably. Lum Berry is another useful option, as it gives Shiftry an advantage against status inducers and Scald users that flock throughout RU. An Adamant nature gives Shiftry the most attacking power needed to burst through the opponent at the expense of Speed tying with Swords Dance Gallade and Kabutops. Jolly is useful for avoiding these Speed ties altogether. There are a couple of other viable moves that can fit into Shiftry's final moveslot. Substitute is a good move to avoid status without taking up an item slot like Lum Berry does, but Shiftry gets worn down easily enough as it is. Rock Slide might seem like a good option on paper to defeat Moltres, but the only advantage Rock Slide has is that it defeats defensive SubRoost Moltres; the more common offensive Moltres is OHKOed by a +2 Sucker Punch after Stealth Rock damage anyway. Low Kick deals more damage to Steelix than Nature Power does, but it has limited use otherwise, not to mention that Steelix is not an opponent Shiftry will want to face alone.</p>

<p>When it comes to finding good teammates for Shiftry, Emboar and Moltres offer the ability to lure in bulky Water-types like Lanturn and Slowking that Shiftry can set up on easily. They also have the added utility of taking on some of Shiftry's enemies such as Escavalier and Ferroseed. Shiftry will sometimes find it hard to work around faster Fighting-types like Primeape, so Pokemon that can threaten them or cripple them, including Mesprit and Rotom, will be appreciated. Entry hazard support is very welcome to ease Shiftry's sweep. The common entry hazard setters, Smeargle and Qwilfish, are two good options. Smeargle pairs well with Shiftry's offensive playstyle and Qwilfish sets entry hazards up reliably while also being able to take on Fire-types that threaten Shiftry like Emboar and Entei. Shiftry also threatens the tier's best spinner, Kabutops, so entry hazards are not hard to keep on the field. As Shiftry can't break through bulky Pokemon with Regenerator such as Tangrowth and Amoonguss, any Fire-type that can lure these Pokemon in and take them out are huge assets.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Leaf Storm
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Hidden Power Fire / Dark Pulse
move 4: Focus Blast / Nature Power
item: Life Orb
ability: Early Bird
nature: Rash
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Shiftry's great typing and diverse movepool, it makes a great mixed attacker that also functions as a wallbreaker. Shiftry has access to Leaf Storm, a 140 Base Power STAB move that has the ability to tear up any non-resistant switch-in. Combine this with its access to Sucker Punch, which allows it to pick off Pokemon that survive Leaf Storm, and Shiftry already has most of the tools it needs to succeed. Hidden Power Fire is mainly used to defeat Escavalier and Ferroseed which would otherwise wall this set. Dark Pulse, on the other hand, is a STAB move with great neutral coverage and eases the pressure against Substitute users. Focus Blast offers the best coverage alongside Shiftry's Dark-type STAB moves, with no Pokemon that resist both Focus Blast and Shiftry's Dark-type STAB moves in the tier, and also deals with Clefable without lowering Shiftry's Special Attack. Nature Power, on the other hand, deals a large amount of damage to Entei and Emboar, preventing them from taking Shiftry on easily.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the item of choice on this set, as it gives the Shiftry needed power to break through walls and allows it to switch moves to accommodate for different threats. 252 Special Attack EVs and a Rash nature gives Shiftry the greatest damage output for Leaf Storm, allowing it to OHKO Slowking a majority of the time and always OHKO Qwilfish. 252 Speed EVs allows Shiftry to Speed tie with other base 80s, including Kabutops and Gallade, and allows it to outspeed some of the most common walls. Although this set capitalizes on Shiftry's ability to use its massively powerful Leaf Storms, an alternate spread of 80 Atk / 176 SpA / 252 Spe with a Naughty nature can be used to allow Shiftry to 2HKO Roselia and OHKO Emboar after Stealth Rock with Nature Power, assuming these two Pokemon threaten your team.</p>

<p>Mixed attacking Shiftry is more of an asset to its team and doesn't rely on other teammates to help it as much as it helps its teammates. Kabutops is a good teammate for removing entry hazards, as Shiftry is easily worn down by them, as well as threaten Moltres. Entry hazard setters are even more notable partners for this set, as hazards help weaken defensive Pokemon to the point where Shiftry can break through them without much trouble. Qwilfish is once again a great partner in this role, as it can set up entry hazards and take on many of Shiftry's common checks and counters. Shiftry's wallbreaking ability is useful for other offensive teammates that struggle with common walls. Life Orb Aerodactyl and Guts Swellow both appreciate Shiftry's wallbreaking support. Entei is a good teammate to defeat Escavalier that often force out Shiftry not carrying Hidden Power Fire and appreciates Shiftry's ability to remove Alomomola, Slowking, and Uxie from the field. Shiftry also supports Rotom, which has trouble wearing down the troublesome Clefable, Amoonguss, and Escavalier.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shiftry has a wide array of other options in its arsenal, but the problem is it generally doesn't excel at any of them. An offensive SubSeed set seems interesting on Shiftry, but it is easy to play around with due to Shiftry's terrible defensive capabilities. A Choice item, such as Choice Scarf or Choice Specs, would help improve Shiftry's middling Speed and average Special Attack, respectively. However, Shiftry does not appreciate being locked into one move and the best use for it is within its dual Grass / Dark STAB and the ability to switch around its moves. Nasty Plot is an interesting move on Shiftry but is overall less effective than Swords Dance. A set utilizing Growth is usable for mixed variants, but it is rather useless outside of sun and it takes away from Shiftry's valuable moveslots. Shiftry has access to Tailwind and Whirlwind, which are both good options for either aiding Shiftry's team further or forcing setup sweepers out. However, Tailwind is better used on a teammate with higher defenses, and Whirlwind is useless given the fact that few Pokemon will want to set up on Shiftry anyway. Toxic and Knock Off would be good for further crippling walls, but Shiftry prefers all-out offense and they are hard to fit on its set due Shiftry's limited number of moveslots. Finally, thanks to Early Bird, Shiftry can use Rest to replenish damage taken from Life Orb recoil and entry hazards, but this strategy is too unreliable due to Shiftry's terrible defenses.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>If you want to stop Shiftry in its tracks, the first thing to do is evaluate what set it's running. Amoonguss is possibly Shiftry's biggest counter, capable of coming in on practically any move and forcing Shiftry out while regaining any HP lost with Regenerator. Mandibuzz also has the bulk to shrug off any of Shiftry's moves and can either Whirlwind Shiftry out to remove its boosts or deal a large amount of damage to Shiftry with Brave Bird. Escavalier, Scolipede, and Durant are able to threaten Shiftry out with their powerful Bug-type STAB moves, but they must be wary of Hidden Power Fire. Druddigon generally takes little damage from most of Shiftry's attacks and can threaten Shiftry with its high Attack stat or crippling moves like Glare. Steelix and Tangrowth are great for taking on the Swords Dance set, as they both take little damage from any of Shiftry's moves. Steelix can Roar Shiftry out to remove its boosts, while Tangrowth will outright beat Shiftry and switch out to regain lost HP. Fire-types also ruin Shiftry's day when they can switch in. Moltres, Entei, and Choice Scarf Emboar are all faster than Shiftry and easily get rid of it, while defensive Emboar takes little from Shiftry's attacks and threatens back with either of its STAB moves. Drapion is also a good all-purpose check for Shiftry lacking Nature Power as it resists Shiftry's STAB moves and threatens it with its own STAB Poison-type moves. Finally, Substitute users like Rotom, Sceptile, and Bouffalant are shaky checks, but they can easily play around Shiftry's Sucker Punch and can either cripple or outright KO it.</p>