[Overview]

<p>Access to nearly every move in the game creates an infinitely dangerous Pokemon, even if that Pokemon has as pitiful stats as Smeargle. While it really can't make use of its expansive offensive movepool, it can most definitely use its supportive movepool. Due to its lack of defenses and decent Speed, Smeargle is almost always used as a lead, even in the age of Team Preview. This way it can tank at least one hit thanks to Focus Sash and accomplish what it needs to. Spore is an almost universal move found on Smeargle thanks to it being the fastest user of the move in the tier. Beyond that, the possibilities are almost endless. Every setup move + Baton Pass, every entry hazard, dual screens, every supportive move, and every status move are at Smeargle's fingertips.</p>

<p>Unfortunately for Smeargle, sleep inducing moves are pretty common in RU, so almost every team is prepared for its Spore in some way or another. Absolutely zero offensive presence also means Smeargle is highly susceptible to Taunt, Substitute, and other setup moves, particularly if it's not carrying Whirlwind. Still, Smeargle will almost always accomplish its goal and is a very real threat in the tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Hazard Lead
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Spore
move 3: Stealth Rock / Rapid Spin
move 4: Whirlwind / Explosion / Memento
item: Focus Sash
ability: Own Tempo
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Smeargle's most common set, as it fits perfectly on offensive teams, quickly setting up a layer of hazards or two and getting out of the way via KO. If the opportunity presents itself, such as against a slow defensive team, Spore can shut down one Pokemon and allow Smeargle to set up an extra layer of hazards. Against offensive teams, the Pokemon that the opponent chooses to lead with will in all likelihood be the one that will be able to deal with Spore in some way, usually through Sleep Talk, but even just making it rely on that move can significantly help your team. However, you can choose to ignore using Spore and go straight for Spikes if you suspect the opponent's lead is carrying any of Lum Berry, Sleep Talk, or Substitute, or even just switch out and come back in later if you suspect Taunt or a multi-hit move. Spikes is typically the best hazard to set up with Smeargle, as its distribution is poor and another teammate can easily set up Stealth Rock. Stealth Rock is definitely still a main option to run as well, particularly if Smeargle is being used on a heavy offense team. However, Rapid Spin is usable in Stealth Rock's stead as it prevents the opponent from setting up hazards alongside Smeargle for free.</p>

<p>The last moveslot is dedicated to ensuring that Smeargle isn't setup fodder post-Spore. Whirlwind blows away Substitute users and other setup sweepers and racks up entry hazard damage. As a bonus, phazing out the Pokemon Smeargle put to sleep resets the sleep counter. Explosion and Memento can be used instead to get Smeargle out as quickly as possible while giving a teammate a free switch in, as well as simultaneously pseudo-spinblocking for itself. Explosion even does upwards of 80% to most Cryogonal and forces Kabutops to incur a Weak Armor Defense drop. However, both of these options leave Smeargle open to most Substitute users.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is the item of choice because Smeargle wouldn't survive most hits in the tier without it and it allows Smeargle to get at worst one entry hazard laid down. The EV spread is simple and maxes Speed to outspeed as many Pokemon as possible to put them to sleep before getting hit. HP is maxed as well but isn't necessarily needed; the situations in which having some HP can come into play is if Smeargle isn't used in the lead slot, as attacks like Choice Scarf Volt Switch from Rotom won't OHKO it with max HP. If Smeargle is running Explosion those HP EVs should be moved to Attack so that Smeargle deals the most damage and has the best chance of breaking the opponent's Substitutes.</p>

<p>The first three moveslots on the set above are pretty much mandatory for this kind of set, but the last slot is highly fluid. Other options include Magic Coat, Glare, Metal Burst, Endeavor, and Taunt. Magic Coat prevents the opponent from setting up entry hazards and from Taunting Smeargle. Glare can cripple a setup sweeper attempting to use Smeargle as setup bait. Metal Burst will deal a ton of damage back to the opponent and probably KO, but Smeargle needs to be slower than the opponent for it to be effective. Endeavor is a great move that doesn't require Smeargle to be slower than the opponent and can irreparably cripple a Pokemon like Alomomola. Finally, Taunt most effectively prevents any kind of set up against Smeargle, though it needs to be faster than the opponent or catch it on the switch in to be effective.</p>

<p>A particular strategy not yet covered is TrickScarf. This requires replacing Focus Sash with Choice Scarf and using Trick in the last slot. This brings several perks to the table. The speed Choice Scarf brings can allow Smeargle to set up two layers of Spikes when normally it would only be able to set up one. A particular situation is when the opponent uses a VoltTurn user to typically break Smeargle's Focus Sash and switch in a faster Pokemon. Smeargle can typically survive the Volt Switch or U-turn and then proceed to outspeed the incoming Pokemon and set up another layer. Against defensive teams, Tricking a Choice Scarf onto one of the Pokemon can be game changing, especially considering the Pokemon chosen to absorb the Spore from Smeargle will likely be a RestTalk user. Finally, the Choice Scarf gives Smeargle an exceptionally fast Spore, meaning it can come in later in the match and cripple an otherwise poised to sweep sweeper. The obvious downside to running TrickScarf is that Smeargle is then open to being OHKOed by an exceptionally large pool of moves it would normally be able to survive thanks to Focus Sash.</p>

<p>The standard set works best on offensive teams, as it simply isn't bulky enough to find a place on defensive teams, and Qwilfish and Roselia are better Spikers for those anyway. The best teammates are those offensive Pokemon that make best use of the Spikes Smeargle lays down, prime examples being Entei, Druddigon, Sceptile, and Escavalier. Kabutops fits well on offensive teams as well and can spin for Smeargle should it not be able to come out in the lead slot. If you choose to not run Stealth Rock, a solid offensive Stealth Rock user capable of keeping the offensive momentum should be used in its stead. Mesprit and Golurk are great for this role as they provide varied offensive pressure and force switches, creating opportunities to set up Stealth Rock. The entry hazards Smeargle sets up are easily capitalized on by offensive VoltTurn teams, meaning Manectric, Cinccino, Moltres, and Rotom-C are great teammates too. Finally, a spinblocker like Rotom is recommended to keep Smeargle's hazards on the field, especially considering it won't be around to set them up again past the first couple turns. However, the need for a spinblocker can be circumvented via the use of Explosion or Memento and keeping up a high amount of offensive pressure.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Quiver Dance / Shift Gear
move 3: Spore
move 4: Substitute
item: Focus Sash
ability: Own Tempo
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With access to the best setup moves in the game in combination with Baton Pass, Smeargle is one of the best possible short pass teammates imaginable. Get Smeargle in against a slow Pokemon and proceed to either setup with Quiver Dance or Shift Gear, or put the opponent to sleep with Spore. Deciding which move to use first depends on what you think your opponents are going to do and if you think they have a Pokemon that will absorb Spore easily enough. Usually, boosting first is the better option, as it gives Smeargle and its teammate an extra turn of sleep if Spore is used second. However, if Smeargle boosts first, it leaves itself exposed to priority moves, meaning it won't be able to use either of Spore or Baton Pass to avoid getting hit. Which setup move to use depends on which teammate you'd like to sweep with, Quiver Dance for special sweepers and Shift Gear for physical. Substitute is in the last slot to avoid any kind of status, and it gives Smeargle's teammate a safe switch in when used with Baton Pass (though being able to pass both Substitute and Quiver Dance/Shift Gear is a rare occurrence).</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The best time to bring this Smeargle out is after you've set up a few entry hazards and have weakened the opposing team a bit. By then, you'll typically have the opponent's check to your Baton Pass recipient at low enough health to proceed to set up and sweep. Smeargle shouldn't be your only win condition though, and it won't always be able to set up, so gauge your opponent and decide if you will need to save Spore for a specific Pokemon. Keeping entry hazards off the field is also a top priority so that Smeargle has the best chance of setting up with its Focus Sash intact.</p>

<p>Maxing Speed and HP gives Smeargle the best possible chances of setting up and passing to its teammate. Though Quiver Dance and Shift Gear are usually the best moves to set up and pass to a teammate because of the Speed boost alongside the attack boost they give, there are a few other options to consider. Belly Drum is a viable alternative, as a complete +6 boost to Attack to any physical attacker in the tier is an almost guaranteed sweep. As a bonus, the teammate doesn't have to suffer the 50% cut to its HP, though this obviously makes it substantially harder for Smeargle to set up successfully. Tail Glow is essentially the special equivalent to Belly Drum. Other boosting moves include Hone Claws, Swords Dance, Growth, and Bulk Up. Defensive boosting moves, such as Cotton Guard and Cosmic Power, are not recommended due to their susceptibility to being instantly ruined by critical hits and the lack of immediate threat that they bring compared to the offensive boosting moves. As a note, remember that Shell Smash cannot be Baton Passed due to the ban of Shell Smash + Baton Pass in RU.</p>

<p>If you're using Smeargle on a more dedicated Baton Pass team, or if you're worried about being phazed in general, Ingrain can be used over Substitute to prevent Whirlwind and other phazing moves from ruining Smeargle's strategy from the get-go. Taunt can also work in a similar manner and has the added benefit of also preventing status moves, though Smeargle is still open to being phazed by the admittedly rare Dragon Tail and Circle Throw. Magic Coat is another possible option to reflect back Taunt, status moves, phazing moves, and entry hazards.</p>

<p>In general, this set is best used as a supplement to offensive teams, creating setup opportunities and keeping up offensive pressure on the opponent. The best recipients are offensive Pokemon with decent Speed that only need a +1 to their offensive stat(s) to complete a sweep. Some examples include Moltres, Magmortar, Medicham, Sceptile, Entei, Emboar, Galvantula, and Gallade, though the full list is very extensive. It's best to have multiple Pokemon on the team that can take advantage of Smeargle's boosts, particularly the Speed boost. For example, passing a Quiver Dance boost to Gallade if the opponent has an Aerodactyl on the field is the better play than passing to Cryogonal, the latter of which would typically be able to "better make use of" the pass. Always play to the opponent and don't try to complete a mission when using a short pass Pokemon like Smeargle; this is distinctly different from trying to complete a Baton Pass chain.</p>

[SET]
name: FEARgle (Level 1)
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Spore
move 3: Endeavor
move 4: Dragon Rage / Memento / Magic Coat
item: Focus Sash
ability: Own Tempo
nature: Hardy
evs: 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set nearly guarantees that Trick Room will be set up, the few exceptions being if the opponent has Taunt, a sleep inducing move, or multi-hit move. A weird set at first glance, this ability to almost always set up Trick Room immediately and get out of the way is fantastic for more offensively oriented Trick Room teams. The typical sequence of moves is such: Smeargle sets up Trick Room, puts a Pokemon to sleep with Spore, brings a Pokemon down to low health with Endeavor, and finally KOes those with less than 40 HP with Dragon Rage (which is every Pokemon hit by Endeavor even with Leftovers taken into account). However, Dragon Rage will rarely see use in most games as the opponent will be unlikely to allow Smeargle to use more than 3 moves in a row, the exception being if the opponent switches into Smeargle as it sets up Trick Room. Memento can be used in place of Dragon Rage to get Smeargle out of the way as quickly as possible and allow a teammate to get in safely. Magic Coat is neat as it gets priority and blocks Taunt and phazing moves, creating a larger window for Smeargle to set up Trick Room and begin its shenanigans.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Smeargle should be at level 1 to make sure its HP is as low as possible, as well as making it as slow as possible. Speed is still maxed for the rare circumstance when there is a level 1 Smeargle vs Smeargle showdown. Focus Sash is the only item that will work here and assures that Smeargle sets up Trick Room; after Focus Sash is broken, Smeargle will fall to any priority move not named Sucker Punch even in Trick Room. Other alternative moveslot options to use over Dragon Rage include Destiny Bond and entry hazards. Destiny Bond ensures that the opponent will get dragged down with Smeargle as it goes out. If you don't want to place Stealth Rock elsewhere on your team or want a layer of Spikes, Smeargle can accomplish that as well before going down.</p>

<p>Ghost-types are immune to Endeavor and are thus the best answers to Smeargle after Spore has been used on something else. Spiritomb and other Pursuit trappers such as Escavalier thus make good partners for Smeargle, though Smeargle is a supporter first and foremost, so this is not required. This set is best used on a full Trick Room team, making other Trick Room setters such as Slowking, Exeggutor, Uxie, and Mesprit ideal teammates. Slow sweepers are also needed, great examples include Aggron, Druddigon, Escavalier, and Bouffalant.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>The actual number of possible sets Smeargle can run is legitimately endless. Most of Smeargle's best options have already been covered in the sets above and are what you should be using with Smeargle most of the time. However, some alternative moves that have not been covered that have some niche use will be detailed here.</p>

<p>Tailwind is an awesome move to boost the Speed of Smeargle's team before it goes down without the need to use Baton Pass. The limited turns it lasts sucks, so it should only be used if Smeargle is about to be KOed to be most effective. Lunar Dance is an awesome move to give a teammate of Smeargle's a new lease on life, and Smeargle is one of the only ones with access to it or Healing Wish in RU (the other most common user being Mesprit). However, to best use Lunar Dance Smeargle must be used outside of the lead slot. Dual screens are always awesome to give a teammate a great setup chance, and Smeargle's access to Spore creates some wicked setup opportunities. However, Smeargle will rarely be able to survive two hits even with a screen in place, meaning most of the time Memento will be most useful. Disable has some niche use, but Smeargle has a lot of other stuff it needs to accomplish before going down. Encore can be awesome to give Smeargle some more time to set up hazards or safely phaze an opponent out. Smeargle is one of the very few with access to Gravity in the tier, but building a team around the move is hard to do. Rain Dance and Sunny Day are options as well, which, again, combined with Spore can give a sweeper like Ludicolo or Victreebel the opening it needs to get in safely. Aromatherapy is another option to heal the team of status, but Lunar Dance is typically better. Imprison is the best way to win a Smeargle vs Smeargle standoff. Finally, Will-O-Wisp and Toxic are other status options to use against the opponent, though they're typically outclassed by Spore and Glare.</p>

<p>Do not, under any circumstances, try to use any attacking move with Smeargle. It simply is not worth it. Even after a Belly Drum, Smeargle lacks the sheer power to really sweep even with STAB ExtremeSpeed. Smeargle should stick to non-damaging moves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Multi-hit moves absolutely destroy Smeargle; they break its Focus Sash and prevent it from accomplishing anything. Users of Rock Blast, Bullet Seed, Tail Slap, and Gear Grind that outspeed Smeargle are the best, examples being Cinccino and Klinklang. Rhydon and Crustle can also work but they are open to being put to sleep by Spore. Lum Berry users, such as Gallade, Durant, Kabutops, Uxie, and Lilligant, can easily outspeed and 2HKO Smeargle and not be put to sleep by Spore. They won't prevent a layer of Spikes or Stealth Rock going up though if the Smeargle user suspects Lum Berry and avoids using Spore. Volt Switch and U-turn can be used to break Smeargle's Focus Sash, and something to absorb the Spore can then be switched in to knock it out.</p>

<p>Sap Sipper Pokemon gain an Attack boost from Spore, and Miltank and Sawsbuck even outspeed Smeargle to limit it to only 1 layer of hazards. Pokemon with Vital Spirit, such as Magmortar, are also immune to Spore and will limit Smeargle to 1 layer as well. Any Pokemon with Substitute can block Spore and is a good way to deal with Smeargle in general, though the Smeargle user can suspect the Substitute and use an entry hazard as the Substitute goes up and then just Whirlwind away the Pokemon the next turn. Sleep Talk users can absorb the Spore and directly threaten Smeargle, common users being Emboar and Escavalier. However, Escavalier is susceptible to allowing Smeargle to set up multiple layers of hazards due to its low Speed.</p>

<p>Faster sleep inducers, such as Jynx and Lilligant, can put Smeargle to sleep before it moves, though their sleep move is less accurate and a miss means they will in turn be put to sleep and possibly crippled for the rest of the match. Magic Coat users, such as Golurk and Mesprit, can bounce back Spore or Smeargle's entry hazards. Taunt users, such as Qwilfish, completely shut down Smeargle as well, though Smeargle is typically faster and it can carry Magic Coat. Fake Out followed by an attack or an attack followed by a priority move such as Aqua Jet also works to limit Smeargle's entry hazards. Kangaskhan in particular works great and will completely prevent Smeargle from accomplishing anything.</p>

<p>Setting up entry hazards and phazing Smeargle out also works wonders against it, and phazing is the best way of dealing with the Baton Pass and Trick Room sets. Steelix and Drapion are good phazers, and Cryogonal with Haze is a good option to switch directly into the Baton Pass set. Beware that Smeargle has a field day against most stall teams since it will outspeed a majority of their members; this is where packing a Magic Coat user or using the VoltTurn strategy mentioned above works best against Smeargle.</p>