[Overview]

<p>The first thing people see when looking at Tangrowth are its huge base stats, with four out of its six base stats being over base 100, a rare sight to see in RU. Among those stats lie a high Defense and respectable offenses, which allow Tangrowth to function as an effective tank. The biggest boon to Tangrowth, however, is its ability, which allows it to regain one-third of its maximum health upon switching out, making it much harder to kill. To complement all that, Tangrowth gets access to Sleep Powder, which effectively lets it incapacitate a Pokemon for the rest of the battle. Unfortunately, the two stats that aren't up-to-par are those that burden it the most; a low Special Defense and Speed make it easy to kill with special attacks. Tangrowth also faces stiff competition from Amoonguss, which sports an actual Special Defense stat, the more accurate Spore, a better defensive typing, and the same Regenerator ability; Tangrowth's higher offenses lets it beat most setup sweepers even after sleep clause has been activated, though. The metagame has also prepared for sleep inducers, which lowers the impact of Tangrowth's main weapon: Sleep Powder.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Sleep Powder
move 2: Power Whip / Giga Drain
move 3: Hidden Power Fighting / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Synthesis / Leech Seed
item: Leftovers
ability: Regenerator
nature: Relaxed / Bold
evs: 240 HP / 252 Def / 16 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although this set has seen better days, it still remains Tangrowth's most effective set, utilizing its high Defense and offenses along with the ability to keep switching thanks to Regenerator to make Tangrowth a tough vine to break. Furthermore, Tangrowth's larger offensive presence gives it an edge over other walls. Sleep Powder is Tangrowth's most valuable move, having the ability to render a would-be threat useless for the entire match; the only thing lacking is its accuracy, as a miss can lead to disastrous results. Power Whip is a strong STAB attack that gives Tangrowth the ability to break past Cryogonal and Slowking while maintaining the ability to check Gallade, something Amoonguss cannot boast of. Giga Drain is a worthy alternative if you desire extra healing as well as the ability to switch into Scalds without fear of weakening Tangrowth's main STAB move. Hidden Power Fighting is used to maim Aggron while landing a strong hit on Sap Sipper users such as Bouffalant and Sawsbuck, but Hidden Power Fire can be used instead to decimate Durant while getting much stronger hit on Escavalier and Ferroseed, though it should be noted that Hidden Power Fighting deals with the latter just fine. The last slot is assigned for extra healing; whether it be from Synthesis or Leech Seed is up to you. Synthesis is Tangrowth's most reliable way of healing, as it doesn't force Tangrowth to switch out. Leech Seed, however, provides chip damage as well as a way to force threats out, and is especially useful if Tangrowth is used on a Spikes-stacking team; furthermore, Leech Seed can be used as a way to provide healing for partners that don't have access to reliable recovery, such as Druddigon and Golurk.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>16 Special Defense EVs are used to avoid the OHKO from Absol's Fire Blast with the rest thrown into Defense and HP for better durability. The choice of nature depends on your choice of STAB move; if Tangrowth is using Power Whip, use Relaxed, otherwise, use Bold. Hidden Power Rock can be used to catch Moltres and other Fire-types on the switch, but Sleep Powder does that well enough and Hidden Power Fire or Fighting provide more utility. In a similar case, Rock Slide can be used so Hidden Power Fire or Fighting isn't sacrificed, but again, the moves mentioned above are overall more useful. Stun Spore and Knock Off are other useful support options, but are outclassed by those listed. Earthquake can be used in the second slot to get a hard hit on Fire-types such as Emboar and Magmortar, but Tangrowth is better off using the moves mentioned above. Similarly, Focus Blast can be used over Hidden Power Fighting for more power, but makes dealing with Substitute Bouffalant and Sawsbuck a luck-driven game, as they can just fish for misses and PP stall Tangrowth.</p>

<p>As for partners, Tangrowth appreciates Pokemon that can switch into special Fire-type attacks; specially defensive Regirock, defensive Druddigon, and Thick Fat Miltank fit the bill, and they can also set up Stealth Rock. Qwilfish and Poliwrath can also switch into Fire-types as well as Bug-types; the former can even set up Spikes, which work great with Leech Seed since it forces switches. Slowking forms a solid and sturdy Regenerator core with Tangrowth, as they have great synergy together. Pokemon that deal with the likes of Lilligant, Roselia, and Amoonguss are also appreciated, as Tangrowth is hard walled by them; Fire-types such as Moltres and Emboar are good choices for that, and the latter can even act as a sleep absorber with Sleep Talk.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Leaf Storm
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Sleep Powder
item: Life Orb / Choice Specs
ability: Regenerator
nature: Modest
evs: 112 HP / 252 SpA / 144 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Tangrowth puts its high Special Attack stat to good use with this set, as it lets Tangrowth go completely offensive while still offering a nice cushion for physical blows. Leaf Storm is the STAB move of choice for this set, as it provides immense power coming off of Tangrowth's boosted Special Attack; the drop in Special Attack isn't too worrisome, as Tangrowth likes switching due to Regenerator healing. Focus Blast hits annoying Steel-types for solid damage, securing an OHKO on Steelix and Ferroseed, the latter after Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes. Hidden Power Rock hits Fire-types such as Moltres and Magmortar for super effective damage, OHKOing the former and having a high chance to OHKO the latter after Stealth Rock, which is guaranteed if Tangrowth uses Choice Specs. While using Sleep Powder seems weird on a set with Choice Specs as one of the recommended items, its potential to cripple a threat for the rest of the match is invaluable; and, as mentioned before, Tangrowth doesn't mind switching, as it will only be healing HP thanks to Regenerator.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs maximize power and let Tangrowth outspeed everything up to minimum Speed Lanturn with the rest thrown in HP for overall bulk. Life Orb offers a nice boost in power, with Regenerator offsetting Life Orb recoil more often than not. Choice Specs can be used instead for immense power at the cost of being locked into a move; Tangrowth will be switching often anyway, so that isn't a big problem. Hidden Power Fire is a useful move to hit Escavalier hard while getting rid of other Steel-types with more reliability than Focus Blast, but Hidden Power Rock's ability to hit Moltres and other Fire-types such as Entei and Typhlosion is usually superior. Giga Drain can be used over Leaf Storm, but the latter's power often overshadows the former's healing on this particular set.</p>

<p>Despite the increase in power, Amoonguss and Roselia are still stops to Tangrowth, which makes having a Fire-type partner such as Moltres or Emboar useful. In return, Tangrowth blasts Water-types out of the way for them to sweep. Gallade is another good partner to get rid of Amoonguss, and also lures out Spiritomb for Tangrowth to switch in on. Similarly, Absol can Pursuit trap the likes of Uxie while also luring out and getting rid of Escavalier with Fire Blast, but Absol rarely every runs both those moves on the same set, so just Pursuit trapping and having Fire-type partners dispose of Escavalier is good enough. Lanturn also pairs well with Tangrowth, as they have solid synergy together; Lanturn can also get Tangrowth in safely with a slow Volt Switch, while also providing chip damage on Druddigon and other Grass-types with Toxic and Scald burns. Entry hazard setters are useful so that Tangrowth can get KOs such as that on Ferroseed with Focus Blast and Magmortar with Hidden Power Rock; Qwilfish and Rhydon are good for this, and they also have good synergy with Tangrowth. Choice Specs Slowking and Tangrowth make for an excellent Regenerator core, as they share good synergy and hit like trucks.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Chlorophyll is a great ability to use on a sun team, as it alleviates Tangrowth's Speed issues; Tangrowth even has access to Growth, SolarBeam, and Synthesis to further take advantage of the sun. A Swords Dance set is semi-viable, as Tangrowth has a great base 100 Attack to utilize it with, but Tangrowth's Speed presents itself as a major issue, and it's better off using its higher base 110 Special Attack stat to go on the offensive. Tangrowth also has access to some other support moves such as Toxic and Reflect, but they're mostly outclassed by the moves listed above.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Magmortar is a great check to Tangrowth, as it can hit Tangrowth on its weaker Special Defense with STAB super effective Fire-type attacks, and doesn't care about Sleep Powder thanks to Vital Spirit, either. Other specially offensive Fire-types such as Typhlosion and Moltres are also great at dealing with Tangrowth, but they must be vary of Sleep Powder and Hidden Power Rock. Sap Sipper users such as Bouffalant and Sawsbuck can come in on Sleep Powder and Tangrowth's other STAB attacks and get a free Attack boost out of them, but they have to avoid Focus Blast, Hidden Power Fighting, and in the latter's case, Hidden Power Fire as well. Galvantula can hit both Tangrowth and its most common partner, Slowking, with STAB super effective Bug-type attacks. Bulky Sigilyph is resilient enough to tank even a Choice Specs-boosted Hidden Power Rock, outlast them with Roost, and then proceed to KO Tangrowth with Air Slash, Heat Wave, or even Psychic. Scolipede and Durant need to watch out for Hidden Power Fire, but can otherwise do a number on both Tangrowth and Slowking, effectively defeating the core. Other Fire-types such as Entei and Emboar can deal with Tangrowth despite them being physically based, as a Choice Band-boosted Flare Blitz from either of them will leave Tangrowth crippled. Sleep absorbers, like the two mentioned above, and even Choice Band or specially defensive Druddigon can get past Tangrowth's most threatening weapon, Sleep Powder. Roselia, Amoonguss, and Clefable can wall Tangrowth with ease once sleep clause has been activated and can then proceed to take it out with Hidden Power Fire or Fire Blast if they carry it. Generally any special attacker that has a hard-hitting move can force Tangrowth out, but be careful of Sleep Powder immobilizing said attacker, and know that Tangrowth doesn't mind being forced out thanks to Regenerator.</p>