[Overview]

<p>Say hello to Ursaring, a Pokemon that has been crushing villages since ADV. With its absurdly high base 130 Attack and its two abilities allowing it to play as different kinds of status attackers, this thing is a serious threat to watch out for. It's also slightly bulkier than other status attackers, with decent defenses of 90 / 75 / 75. It has a terrible base Speed of 55, but that can easily be mitigated with Quick Feet.</p>

<p>However, Ursaring receives a ton of competition from other status attackers, most notably Zangoose. Zangoose, which is a similar status attacker to Ursaring thanks to its Dream World ability Toxic Boost, is faster than Guts Ursaring, and stronger than Quick Feet Ursaring, so Ursaring is required to specialize to stand out, making it generally inferior. In fact, the only thing that Ursaring is better at in both sets is its bulk. Don't let all this discourage you from using Ursaring, though; while the metagame around it has shifted, Ursaring itself still functions as the same town smasher it was before, and is a deadly force to be reckoned with.</p>

[SET]
name: Quick Feet
move 1: Protect / Swords Dance
move 2: Facade
move 3: Close Combat
move 4: Crunch
item: Toxic Orb / Flame Orb
ability: Quick Feet
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Quick Feet, Ursaring is able to carve itself a niche in the metagame as a bulkier and slightly faster status attacker than Zangoose. With the Quick Feet boost, Ursaring is able to outspeed Pokemon in the base 91 to base 105 Speed tier, such as Sigilyph, Scyther, and Rotom, which makes it significantly better at cleaning offensive teams in conjunction with its decent bulk. Protect ensures that the status Orb activates and Ursaring gets its Speed boost, making it kind of like a boosting move. However, if you feel confident that you don't need Protect to activate the Orb and keep Ursaring alive, you can use Swords Dance to boost Ursaring's Attack and muscle through defensive threats a little easier. Facade is the STAB move of choice for this set, as the boost from the poison status pushes this attack to absurd levels of power. Close Combat is a great coverage option for hitting the Rock- and Steel-types that resist Facade, and Crunch hits the Ghost-types that are immune to both the previous moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because this set aims to be faster than Zangoose, a Jolly nature is preferred, as it allows Ursaring to do so. However, even after having a Jolly nature, Quick Feet, and maximum Speed investment, Ursaring still isn't that fast, which is something that should be kept in mind while battling. The choice of Orb is up to you. However, Toxic Orb deals less damage for the first three turns Ursaring is on the field, making it a more useful hit-and-run item. As for teammates, Ghost- and Psychic-types are great teammates to have, as they can both cover Ursaring's Fighting weakness. This allows Ursaring to clean through teams much more easily late-game. Examples of some good Pokemon to use include Spiritomb and Uxie.  Physically based Water-types such as Kabutops and Samurott are also good teammates as they pressure most Rock- and Steel-types and can wear down bulky Water-types. Finally, more offensive approaches toward taking down Ursaring, such as Sucker Punch Absol and Spiritomb, as well as Escavalier, can be taken down with Durant and certain variants of Moltres, respectively.</p>

[SET]
name: Village Crusher (Guts)
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Facade
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Crunch
item: Flame Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Adamant
evs: 156 HP / 252 Atk / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set eschews the Speed gained from Quick Feet in favor of the raw power of Guts. Ursaring also possesses greater natural bulk than Zangoose, allowing it to take weaker hits better; this is useful against defensive teams. It is also powerful enough to OHKO both Steelix after Sturdy and defensive Spiritomb at +2, as well as to 2HKO Alomomola. Swords Dance is used in this set to boost Ursaring's already enormous Attack to extreme levels. Facade is the main STAB move here and wrecks teams after STAB, status, and Swords Dance are taken into account.  Earthquake is a powerful coverage option that covers the Rock- and Steel-types that shrug off a Facade with ease. Finally, Crunch hits Ghost-types, notably Golurk, which are immune to Facade.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because this set is focused more on hitting hard, an Adamant nature is preferred. The listed EVs allow Ursaring to outpace minimum Speed Lanturn while maximizing Attack power for offensive presence and also making Ursaring slightly bulkier with some HP EVs. This set utilizes a Flame Orb instead of a Toxic Orb because it will be staying in for longer periods of time and the Toxic damage will outdamage that of the burn after 4 turns. As for some other move options, Close Combat is a really powerful one that covers Rock- and Steel-types that resist Facade, but it lowers Ursaring's bulk after each subsequent use, which can be a problem for a set where Ursaring's bulk is its niche. Finally, offensive Ghost-types such as Rotom and Spiritomb are good teammates, as Ursaring covers their Ghost-type weakness and the Ghost-types cover its Fighting-type weakness.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Unfortunately, Ursaring has very few other viable options it can turn to. Fire Punch is a decent move that allows Ursaring to bypass Durant, Escavalier, and Ferroseed more easily, but it's going to find a hard time fitting it into one of the above sets. It also has some other interesting boosting moves such as Belly Drum and Work Up. However, the former will get Ursaring KOed easily while the other pales in comparison to the +2 boost that Swords Dance provides.  A RestTalk set can be used in conjunction with Bulk Up, but is generally outclassed by Vigoroth, which possesses similar bulk to Ursaring thanks to Eviolite, higher Speed, and better support moves such as Slack Off and Taunt. Finally, Ursaring has lots of great coverage moves such as Stone Edge and the elemental punches, but the moves given on the above sets already give Ursaring perfect coverage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ursaring, unfortunately, doesn't come without its checks and counters. First of all, Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan's Mach Punch and Sucker Punch from Pokemon like Absol will put a massive dent in Ursaring's HP. Ferroseed can check the Guts set if Ursaring doesn't have Close Combat or Fire Punch and can chip away at it with a combination of Iron Barbs and Leech Seed. Steelix and Rhydon can take all of Ursaring's moves except for a Guts-boosted Close Combat and Earthquake. Alomomola and Tangrowth can avoid a 2HKO from Quick Feet Ursaring and can also chip away at it. Additionally, Ursaring's reliance on status Orbs is also a double-edged sword; it hates the residual damage and can often be worn down simply by switching in Ghost-types, which are immune to its most powerful attacks. Fast Pokemon with Speed investment, such as Sceptile and Durant, will have no trouble taking down Ursaring. Of course, if even Pokemon without a Choice Scarf can outpace and beat Ursaring, Choice Scarf users such as Medicham will usually be able to do the same. Finally, Escavalier can stomach a hit even from Guts Ursaring and OHKOes it with Megahorn.</p>