[Overview]

<p>Volbeat isn't a Pokemon that seems very viable due to its pitiful stats, but a closer look reveals that it has access to the rare Prankster ability, which is where its main niche lies. It has all the right moves to utilize its ability as well, although the lack of Taunt really hinders it. Despite that, Volbeat makes for a great rain setter and also supports rain teams with paralysis support in the form of priority Thunder Wave. Volbeat also has a rare boosting move in Tail Glow, which it can effectively pass onto another Pokemon with priority Baton Pass, and priority Encore makes setting up against the likes of entry hazard leads and opposing boosting Pokemon easier. Unfortunately, Volbeat has low bulk and an even lower offensive presence, making setting up and passing a difficult task. Furthermore, its Bug typing is a double-edged sword; it gives Volbeat resistances to Fighting and Ground, but also burdens it with weaknesses to the omnipresent Fire- and Rock-type attacks. It faces a lot of competition from Liepard as a rain setter and Smeargle as a Baton Passer, as the former lacks a Stealth Rock weakness and the latter has a superior boosting move in Quiver Dance.</p>

[SET]
name: Rain Dance
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: U-turn
move 3: Encore
move 4: Thunder Wave
item: Damp Rock
ability: Prankster
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>RU is filled with dangerous Pokemon that become even more threatening when it's raining; Volbeat aims to bring out the true power in such Pokemon by setting up the weather while also supporting them with slow U-turns and Encore. Liepard might seem to outclass this set due to its lack of a Stealth Rock weakness and access to Taunt; however, Volbeat's typing is much better defensively, giving it resistances to Fighting and Ground, while the rain mitigates its Fire-type weakness (giving it another boon as Volbeat utilizes the rain it sets). U-turn is used to bring in a rain sweeper unscathed once Volbeat's job is done. Encore is very useful to lock an unsuspecting opponent into a non-attacking move, giving Volbeat more setup opportunities and its teammates more switch-in opportunities. Thunder Wave lets Volbeat support its team further by crippling dangerous Pokemon such as Sceptile and Kabutops, which would otherwise trouble rain teams.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Volbeat's physical bulk, as its typing is more geared towards taking physical hits. A Relaxed nature and 0 Speed IVs ensure that Volbeat gets outsped by the majority of the metagame so it can U-turn into a rain sweeper without said sweeper taking any damage. Sunny Day and Heat Rock can be used to turn Volbeat into a sun supporter, but Whimsicott gives it too much competition in that role. Roost can be used for reliable recovery, but Volbeat typically prefers the options listed above as they provide more utility overall. Pokemon that utilize the rain are obvious partners; Ludicolo, Omastar, Kabutops, and Moltres all fall into that category. Defensive Grass-types such as Ferroseed and Amoonguss also love the rain, as it mitigates their Fire-type weaknesses (especially for the former), and offensive variants of the latter also love the paralysis support Volbeat has to offer. Having a backup rain setter is highly recommended in case Volbeat goes down; Lanturn and Uxie fit that bill nicely.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Tail Glow
move 3: Encore
move 4: Substitute / Thunder Wave
item: Leftovers
ability: Prankster
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Access to Tail Glow already gives Volbeat a niche as a Baton Passer, but Prankster elevates that niche to a whole new level. The +3 Special Attack boost, when passed to the right teammate, can be devastating for the opposing team. Encore aids Volbeat in the daunting task of setting up, as locking the opponent into a non-attacking move can give Volbeat just the time it needs to set up and pass. Substitute allows Volbeat to avoid status to aid in its setup. If the Substitute stays intact when Volbeat Baton Passes, the effects can be game-changing, as the opponent will almost always need to sacrifice at least one Pokemon to even attempt to regain momentum. Thunder Wave can be used instead to cripple the opposing Pokemon and make it easier to Baton Pass into its recipient safely.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Much like with the previous set, the EV spread utilizes Volbeat's Bug typing by giving it usable physical bulk. A Salac Berry can be used with an EV spread of 244 HP / 252 Def / 12 SpD to pass a Speed boost to the recipient. However, this should only be used with Substitute, as Substitute makes it easy to get into activation range without having the risk of being KOed. Mental Herb can be used alongside Thunder Wave to get surefire protection from Taunt, but it's only a one-time thing. Roost can be used for reliable recovery, but Volbeat is better off using the options listed above as they provide more utility overall. Bug Buzz seems tempting, but is usually a bad idea, as Volbeat will almost always want to do something other than outright attack the opponent; even if Volbeat gets Taunted, its best bet is to switch out, as it won't be doing much to the opponent with a pathetically weak Bug Buzz. Recipients for Tail Glow should typically be either bulky or fast, as Tail Glow only provides a Special Attack boost, leaving the recipient prone to revenge killing. Lanturn and Slowking are both good examples of bulky recipients that also provide a valuable Fire resistance, with the former having a Flying resistance as well. Manectric and Rotom-C are fast recipients that Volbeat can Baton Pass to when facing a Flying-type. Lastly, Tangrowth is a wonderful recipient when Volbeat is up against a Rhydon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Tailwind is the most viable other option for Volbeat, although its two-turn duration for the team is very off-putting. Confuse Ray is another viable option, although the unreliability of confusion makes it a lesser option. An attacking set with Tail Glow / Bug Buzz / Giga Drain / Thunderbolt and a Life Orb can be considered, but Volbeat doesn't have the bulk, Speed, or power (even after Tail Glow) to utilize it effectively. Volbeat's Attack is higher than its Special Attack and it does have a plethora of physical moves such as U-turn, Acrobatics, Ice Punch, and even Focus Punch, but again, its stats really hinder it. Lagging Tail or a status Orb used alongside Trick is feasible, but Volbeat doesn't have much room for it. Toxic is great to cripple most walls, but takes up a precious moveslot and usually isn't worth it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Manectric appreciates switching in on a Thunder Wave due to Lightningrod and can blast Volbeat away with Overheat or Flamethrower. Rhydon doesn't care for Thunder Wave either and can KO Volbeat even through Substitute with Rock Blast as long is it gets at least four hits (three if Stealth Rock is up). Phazing moves such as Roar and Whirlwind can remove Volbeat's boosts as well as the recipient's if they catch it on the switch. Dragon Tail can also work, but it's a bit unreliable due to its 90% accuracy and inability to phaze through Substitute. Steelix can learn both Roar and Dragon Tail, so it makes for a good check. Qwilfish can use Taunt to put a complete stop to Volbeat, and it can even set up Spikes to annoy Volbeat's team. Keeping up the offensive momentum and threatening to KO or severely cripple Volbeat or its recipient is another way to avoid a successful pass. Lastly, any decently powerful Pokemon can KO Volbeat, although they will almost always be left crippled by Thunder Wave.</p>