[Overview]

<p>Chandelure is a bit of an oddball in Doubles; it's not particularly fast or bulky, which are two important traits that make Pokemon stand out. However, its saving graces come from its astounding base 145 Special Attack and access to the rather exclusive Trick Room, as well as an immunity to Fake Out, which helps its setup, adding up to an odd yet effective combination of offense and support. It has a great ability in Flash Fire, granting it another immunity. Chandelure can also utilize the combination of Imprison and Trick Room, effectively shutting down any opposing Trick Room setters. However, it does suffer from common weaknesses from moves such as Earthquake, Rock Slide, and Scald, as well as the high usage of Tyranitar, which can defeat Chandelure with its hands tied behind its back thanks to Sand Stream and its resistance to Chandelure's STABs. Not only this, but another popular weather, rain, puts quite a damper on Chandelure's effectiveness. Even if it does suffer from common weaknesses, not many other offensive Trick Room users can hold a candle to Chandelure, as it still manages to carve out a niche as one of the most effective offensive Trick Room users in the game.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Trick Room
move 1: Heat Wave / Overheat
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Trick Room
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash / Fire Gem
ability: Flash Fire
nature: Quiet
evs: 240 HP / 16 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Chandelure doesn't have much use for coverage moves, which serves this set perfectly as it allows Chandelure to make room for Trick Room and the ever-useful Protect while still hitting common Pokemon such as Cresselia and Scizor for super effective damage. Heat Wave is a spread move and receives a STAB boost, allowing it to deal respectable damage to two Pokemon at once. Shadow Ball is slightly less powerful in terms of net damage, but is still more accurate, does slightly more damage to the target Pokemon, and is capable of 2HKOing Cresselia.</p>

<p>This variant of Chandelure isn't the kind of Trick Room setter that comes in at the beginning of the game with the sole purpose of setting Trick Room; instead, it's the Pokemon that you bring in when it can be an offensive threat against the opponent. The opponent is put in a bad position, being forced to guess between an attack and Trick Room, while Chandelure can basically do whatever it wants, especially if the Focus Sash is still intact.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is used to set up Trick Room more consistently, especially when considering Chandelure's rather common weaknesses, and Chandelure has a high enough Special Attack to deal consistent damage without a boost. If you really want some firepower though, look no farther than a Fire Gem-boosted Overheat. Thanks to a Gem boost, Overheat is capable of OHKOing even the bulkiest of Thundurus, and if you can manage to back it with a Helping Hand boost as well, it can OHKO specially defensive Musharna, Togekiss, and even 4/0 Garchomp. Fire Gem doesn't net any special KOs with Heat Wave, however, so when using Heat Wave, it's best to stick with Focus Sash.</p>

<p>Flame Body might be appealing to burn Tyranitar and the like, but it's important to remember that such Pokemon can just as easily use Rock Slide or other non-contact moves. This renders Flame Body useless most of the time, making Flash Fire's immunity and potential power boost more worthwhile. If you're using Chandelure for anti-Trick Room, you might want to consider Imprison over Protect or Shadow Ball, which is the most consistent anti-Trick Room method out there, albeit highly specialized and possibly useless against any team that doesn't rely on Trick Room.</p>

<p>The EVs are distributed mainly in HP and Special Attack mainly because Chandelure doesn't have much to do with the remaining 252 EVs. 240 HP minimizes sandstorm and hail damage while the remainder is dumped into Defense. If you're worried about Genesect getting a free Special Attack boost against Chandelure, you can allocate the Defense EVs into Special Defense, though you'll have to decide what kind of attack you're most scared of; a +1 U-turn or a +1 special attack. Chandelure's Speed is minimized to take full advantage of Trick Room, though if you're building a semi-Trick Room team, you can afford to make your Chandelure faster. A spread that achieves this is Modest, and utilizes 44 Speed EVs to overtake Cresselia and tie with Rotom-W, which is useful to deliver the final blow or deal a nice of chunk damage; a set with Modest with 8 Speed IVs can also be used, as it outspeeds neutral-natured Scrafty outside of Trick Room and neutral-natured base 70s such as Metagross in Trick Room, as well as other Trick Room Chandelure that opt for a Quiet nature. Outspeeding these Pokemon outside of Trick Room is especially important if you're using Fire Gem Overheat, as many Pokemon around the base 60 Speed region are in danger of being OHKOed or 2HKOed by either Overheat or Shadow Ball.</p>

<p>As always, in order to set up Trick Room, you need support in the form of Fake Out or Follow Me. Amoonguss and Hariyama are two prime examples, as they not only apply pressure under Trick Room, but are also capable of patching up Chandelure's weaknesses with their opportune typing or Wide Guard. Hariyama also acts as a fantastic counter to Tyranitar, one of Chandelure's biggest counters. Scrafty and Hitmontop aren't as offensive as Hariyama, but they sport Intimidate and better overall bulk, which helps to take down Tyranitar. Other Pokemon that can make use of the twisted dimensions are obviously great partners for Trick Room Chandelure. Abomasnow breaks Chandelure's Focus Sash with its hail, but offers great offensive synergy with Blizzard and can bait Fire-type moves, allowing Chandelure to grab a free Flash Fire boost. Snow Warning also removes Drizzle's effect, making Abomasnow a nice anti-rain Pokemon to use alongside Chandelure.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Heat Wave / Overheat
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Energy Ball
move 4: Overheat / Trick
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Flash Fire
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set goes in the complete opposite direction of the Trick Room set as it aims to outspeed threats with Choice Scarf rather than underspeed them with Trick Room. This set excels at taking down Pokemon such as Latios, Garchomp, Shaymin-S, and Metagross. Heat Wave is a standard STAB move, providing spread damage with a decent Base Power. Shadow Ball is a good complementary STAB move, providing great neutral coverage and super effective damage on prominent threats such as Cresselia and Latios. Hidden Power Ice is the suggested move in the third slot, allowing Chandelure to combat Pokemon with notable Ice-type weaknesses, such as Landorus-T and Garchomp. Energy Ball is a viable alternative, providing Chandelure with a way to hit bulky Water-types, notably Gastrodon and Rotom-W. However, while its coverage is acceptable, its relatively low Base Power means that even super effective hits often will not OHKO. Overheat can be used in the last slot for a single powerful attack, but forces Chandelure to switch out, while Trick is used to cripple defensive checks.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Timid allows Chandelure to surpass Shaymin-S as well as well as any Pokemon with less than 213 Speed under Tailwind. A Modest nature can be used for the extra power it provides, while still letting Chandelure outspeed Weavile and tie with Shaymin-S. Flash Fire is the preferred ability as it allows Chandelure to switch into Fire-type attacks freely while simultaneously boosting its own. Flame Body is a viable alternative, although Chandelure is often targeted by non-contact moves, such as Rock Slide and Earthquake. Furthermore, Flash Fire has more general utility, allowing Chandelure to switch in with much more ease.</p>

<p>While already supported by a strong base 145 Special Attack, Chandelure enjoys team support in the form of Helping Hand from Pokemon such as Cresselia. As Chandelure is weak to three of the most common spread moves, Earthquake, Rock Slide, and Muddy Water, Wide Guard support is also appreciated. Pokemon such as Hitmontop and Hariyama are ideal for this role, as they can also provide Fake Out, effectively protecting Chandelure while leaving it free to attack. Sun support is also favorable, making Heat Wave a much more potent spread move. Sableye is notable for this role, as it not only has access to a priority Sunny Day, but also a priority Will-O-Wisp, allowing it to manually trigger Chandelure's Flash Fire.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Chandelure has a number of other options that it can use. Hidden Power Rock and Hidden Power Ground can be used to hit Volcarona and Heatran, respectively. Heatran takes very little from Chandelure's STABs and commonly used coverage moves, so Chandelure can effectively lure in Heatran and OHKO with Hidden Power Ground. With sun support, SolarBeam can be used for more powerful coverage against Water-types. However, it should never be used outside of sun, and is shaky even with sun support due to the constant weather changes. Will-O-Wisp can be used to burn and cripple opposing physical attackers, but Chandelure is often outpaced and OHKOed by prominent physical threats, especially without team support, due to the prevalence of moves such as Earthquake and Rock Slide. Flame Charge is an interesting option for a way to boost Chandelure's Speed, but it is outclassed in this manner, notably by Volcarona, which sports a much better boosting move. Pain Split allows for a semi-reliable way to regain health, but Chandelure really isn't very bulky anyway and a misprediction can easily spell doom. Substitute can act as a buffer from revenge killing, but Chandelure often does not have space for it.</p>

<p>A Life Orb set is viable, providing a lot of power while retaining the ability to switch moves. Again, the loss of HP is not very noticeable, considering the fact that Chandelure is OHKOed by most powerful moves regardless. Choice Specs allows Chandelure to act as a nuke, although the set lacks Speed and is easily revenge killed. An alternative EV spread of 240 HP / 44 SpA / 224 SpD with a Calm or Sassy nature can be used as a much more bulky set, allowing it to live a Life Orb-boosted Draco Meteor from Latios or a Shadow Ball from opposing Chandelure at full health while still retaining the ability to strike back hard.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Tyranitar is one of the best counters to Chandelure, taking little from Chandelure's STAB attacks, while being able to easily OHKO in return with Crunch or Rock Slide. Heatran also takes very little from Chandelure's commonly used moves, and is able to 2HKO back with Earth Power, but it must be wary of the rare Hidden Power Ground, which will OHKO it unless it's running significant bulk investment. Heatran can also easily set up a Substitute on any of Chandelure's commonly carried moves. Politoed is also a good counter, as it not only takes Chandelure's attacks well, but also brings rain, limiting Chandelure's offensive presence, and can do a lot of damage even with an unboosted Water-type move. Most Water-types have little to fear, as Energy Ball often does not have enough power and is not too commonly seen regardless. Swampert receives a special mention as it also gets Wide Guard, stopping one of Chandelure's primary STAB moves. As for checks, Scrafty is a good one, with its great Special Defense and Dark-type STAB moves. Landorus-T can switch in on any move other than Hidden Power Ice and OHKO back with a powerful Earthquake. Hydreigon is also a great check, resisting all of Chandelure's commonly used moves bar Hidden Power Ice and easily OHKOing back with Dark Pulse. Chandelure has a very low base HP stat and its defenses are nothing special either, so even powerful neutral attacks are able to OHKO.</p>

<p>If your team is weak to Trick Room, Chandelure should be a top priority threat. As Fake Out cannot be used to stop it from setting Trick Room, Taunt and Imprison are some of the few viable ways to stop it from setting up. For example, Thundurus has a fast Taunt and numerous other supporting moves. However, Taunt (and Imprison) users must be wary of a powerful Fire Gem-boosted Overheat. While not very bulky, Trick Room Chandelure often carries a Focus Sash, so simply double targeting it can quickly dispatch of it before Trick Room can be set up.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>While Chandelure enjoys the Fire immunity that Flash Fire provides, Shadow Tag will allow it to KO targets more reliably, notably Choice-locked Pokemon, without fear of them switching out. Being able to trap both opposing Pokemon is also a huge plus, in many ways making it broken, allowing you to safely switch into your own counter for their Pokemon.</p>