[Overview]

<p>Infernape has the role of a Fake Out-using mixed attacker with a somewhat unique typing. However, it faces competition from Scrafty, Hariyama, and Hitmontop as a Fighting-type that utilizes Fake Out. In addition, it faces competition from Blaziken, which has superior mixed offenses, Speed Boost, and the same typing. It also has common weaknesses in Ground- and Water-type moves, which are present in the form of the ever-so-common Earthquake and Muddy Water. Infernape can still hold its own in Doubles, though; it can deal with common Pokemon such as Abomasnow and Tyranitar and separates itself from said competitors with a faster Fake Out, higher base Speed, and ability to go mixed.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Fake Out
move 1: Fake Out
move 2: Overheat / Heat Wave
move 3: Close Combat
move 4: Feint / Taunt / Protect
item: Focus Sash
ability: Blaze
nature: Naive / Hasty
evs: 180 Atk / 76 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to hit a multitude of Pokemon hard with Infernape's coverage while providing its team with Fake Out utility. Fake Out gives room for building a better setup for your team, and is especially effective since Infernape is faster than most users of said move (hence foiling their attempts to use it). Overheat lets Infernape OHKO Metagross with the given EVs, but Heat Wave is a fine alternative with the added benefit of being a spread move; it is considerably weaker, though. Close Combat is its Fighting-type move of choice and lets it hit most Pokemon that can easily stomach its Fire STAB moves, such as Tyranitar and Heatran, for good damage. Feint is the main option in the last slot, and can catch an opposing Pokemon that expects Fake Out off guard. Taunt and Protect are fine alternatives; the former lets Infernape be a nuisance for Trick Room setters, and the latter eases prediction in situations where you are not sure about the opponent's actions.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given spread allows Infernape to OHKO Metagross and Occa Berry Scizor with Overheat. Focus Sash is the item of choice, as it has good synergy with Blaze. Life Orb can be used for the extra power, but Infernape really needs the safety blanket provided by Focus Sash, and a Blaze-boosted Overheat hits harder than one that is boosted by Life Orb. Fire Blast can be used in Overheat's place as a STAB Fire-type move, but unfortunately it misses out on the OHKO on Metagross and Occa Berry Scizor without virtually maximizing its Special Attack; Flare Blitz is in the same boat, and also KOes Infernape due to recoil after its Focus Sash has been activated. Encore lets Infernape screw over threats that have just used Protect, but has little use otherwise. Grass Knot slams Jellicent and Gastrodon hard, but still doesn't do much damage to the former and the latter is hit hard enough by Close Combat. Sunny Day is helpful to get rid of hail and sand, which break Infernape's Focus Sash, and in addition, boosts Overheat's power; Ninetales and Cresselia are two prominent sun setters that work well. A lot of Pokemon that appreciate Fake Out support, such as Spore users and Thundurus, make for good partners. Wallbreakers that appreciate Feint support include Deoxys-A, Thundurus-T, and Latios; said wallbreakers make for good partners for this reason. Pokemon that deal with Trick Room, such as Amoonguss, are appreciated, as Infernape will most likely be outsped under Trick Room, which makes it prone to being OHKOed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A special set with Focus Blast and Fire Blast as STAB options is viable, but these moves are inaccurate and unreliable. Mach Punch is a priority move that allows Infernape to revenge kill threats such as Darkrai and Weavile, but Infernape is usually fast enough to KO the threats it needs to. Hidden Power Ice lets Infernape 2HKO (OHKO if holding a Life Orb) Landorus-T, a major threat to it. Stone Edge can be used to hit Salamence and Gyarados decently hard, as well as to provide a move that OHKOes Volcarona. Helping Hand lets Infernape support its teammates by increasing their damage output for one turn, but Infernape is better off attacking. U-turn can be used on the set to gain momentum. Endeavor is a gimmicky option which can be effective in conjunction with Focus Sash.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Infernape is not very strong, thus any relatively bulky Pokemon can check it. Cresselia and Landorus-T are prime examples of bulky Pokemon that aren't weak to any of its attacks and can OHKO in return. Bulky Water-types, such as Jellicent, Gyarados, and Gastrodon, are problematic for Infernape, as they resist its Fire-type STAB moves&mdash;Gyarados and Jellicent resist and are immune to Fighting, respectively&mdash;and aren't hit hard by its coverage moves either. Chandelure completely walls Infernape lacking Rock Slide, Stone Edge, and Earthquake, and can hit it hard with a STAB Shadow Ball. Politoed can change the weather and dampen Infernape's Fire-type moves, making it an effective counter. Intimidate users, such as the previously mentioned Gyarados and Landorus-T, as well as Hitmontop and Salamence, can greatly hinder Infernape, as most of its attacks are physically oriented. Latias and Latios wall Infernape's STAB moves and can OHKO it with Psyshock. Trick Room and Tailwind both mean that the opponent will usually move before Infernape, taking away its greatest asset, its Speed. Swift Swim sweepers and Excadrill under their respective weathers can easily OHKO Infernape; they should do so after its Focus Sash is broken, however, as it can do good damage to them in return. Even if Infernape has its Focus Sash, though, Excadrill can bring it down to 1 HP, and then Infernape gets KOed by sand damage. Lastly, faster Pokemon that OHKO Infernape, such as Tornadus, Shaymin-S, and Deoxys-A, can check it.</p>