[Overview]

<p>With Rotom-W presenting itself as a top-tier threat in the Doubles metagame, one would obviously wonder why anyone would use Rotom-H instead. The answer lies in its unique Fire / Electric typing, which in tandem with Levitate gives it a Ground immunity as well as resistances to Electric-, Flying-, Ice-, Grass-, Bug-, Fire-, and Steel-type attacks, many of which are very common in the metagame. Thanks to Rotom-H's large array of resistances, it can reliably check a lot of common threats, including Zapdos, Thundurus, Metagross, Scizor, and Volcarona, that lack Quiver Dance. Additionally, it is also one of the few Fire-types in the Doubles metagame that isn't reliably countered by Water-types, courtesy of its Electric-type STAB moves. It is also efficient offensively, as a Fire Gem-boosted Overheat is capable of frying common threats in the tier such as Scizor, Metagross, and Mamoswine.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, Rotom-H has a lot of factors that hold it back from fame. Common sand and rain teams can easily work around it thanks to bulky Rock-types and speedy Swift Swim attackers, respectively. This is further compounded by its two weaknesses to Rock- and Water-types, which will often seem perfectly chosen to set Rotom-H up for failure against the aforementioned types of teams. These problems aren't enough to stop Rotom-H though, as its niche of handling threats such as Zapdos and Thundurus is one that very few other Pokemon can reliably fill.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Overheat
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Protect
item: Fire Gem
nature: Modest
EVs: 252 HP / 252 SpA / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to use Rotom-H's offensive potential and large set of resistances to have it function as a bulky hit-and-run attacker. The typical plan is simple: switch in on something that can do very little to Rotom-H, such as Thundurus, slam it with a Fire Gem-boosted Overheat, and then make a hasty exit. Then the set can come back in late-game and proceed to pick off whatever remains with Thunderbolt and Hidden Power. The Hidden Power of choice usually depends on what your team needs help with; Hidden Power Ice is a good option for picking off Dragon-types, especially Garchomp, while Hidden Power Grass hits the majority of Ground-types, notably Gastrodon. Protect rounds off the set, allowing Rotom-H to scout for dangerous attacks while stalling out field effects like Tailwind and Trick Room. It also lets Rotom-H function as bait for attacks while its partner takes out a threat or two.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An alternative spread of 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe and a Timid nature is also viable, as it allows Rotom-H to move before opposing Rotom-W, Heracross, Mamoswine, Suicune, Chandelure, and bulky Thundurus. It is not favorable though, as Rotom-H loses a lot of bulk, which is one of its most valuable assets. Another option is an alternative spread of 252 HP / 104 SpA / 148 SpD and a Calm nature, which allows Rotom-H to survive a Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor off of Timid Latios 100% of the time. However, this spread is not preferred, because Rotom-H loses a lot of offensive power and can't do much back to Latios anyway. Finally, Volt Switch can be used over Thunderbolt, allowing Rotom-H to do some damage while switching out, and can potentially allow for a teammate to get a safe switch in, assuming Rotom-H uses Volt Switch after the opposition has moved.</p>

<p>When it comes to teammates, Hydreigon is one of the best for Rotom-H offensively, as their combined STAB attacks can dish out heavy damage to the majority of the Doubles metagame. Additionally, Fighting-types such as Hitmontop, Breloom, and Conkeldurr, and any other Pokemon that have a hatred of Flying-types, will work well alongside this set, as Rotom-H can reliably handle the majority of Flying-types in the tier.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>ChestoRest can be used to give Rotom-H semi-reliable recovery, allowing it to take advantage of its key resistances to Steel-, Electric-, Fire-, and Grass-type moves while also making it a great switch-in to sleep inducers such as Breloom and Amoongus. However, Rotom-H loses the important coverage that Hidden Power provides if it chooses to run ChestoRest. The same applies to other useful support moves Rotom-H has access to, including Thunder Wave, Will-O-Wisp, Light Screen, Reflect, Sunny Day, and Swagger. Discharge can be used as an alternate Electric-type STAB move, as it is a spread move with a high chance to paralyze an opposing Pokemon. However, there is a noticeable drop in power between Thunderbolt and Discharge, and the fact that Discharge can hit Rotom-H's partner can be a huge problem. A Choice Specs or Choice Scarf set can be used due to Rotom-H's access to moves such as Trick and Volt Switch. However, Rotom-H is generally outperformed as a Choice user by Rotom-W. Finally, Sitrus Berry can be used to help greatly with Rotom-H's longevity.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rotom-H is fairly easy to check and counter thanks to its limited coverage and common weaknesses. Water-types that are neutral or immune to Thunderbolt, such as Swampert and Gastrodon, are great counters to Rotom-H, provided that it doesn't carry Hidden Power Grass. Dragon-types such as Hydreigon and Latios are also excellent counters, as both resist Rotom-H's STAB moves and take little damage from Hidden Power Ice. They can then proceed to annihilate Rotom-H with a Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor. Rock-types that do not take much damage from Thunderbolt, such as Rhyperior, Tyranitar, and Terrakion, are great counters. However, Rhyperior must watch out for Hidden Power Grass. Rain teams are generally troublesome for Rotom-H to face, as, despite its access to Thunderbolt, rain weakens the power of its Overheat and allows Pokemon with the ability Swift Swim, including Kabutops, Ludicolo, and Kingdra, to OHKO Rotom-H. Faster Pokemon carrying a super effective move, such as Manaphy, Landorus-T, and Kyurem-B, can KO Rotom-H after some prior damage.</p>