[Overview]

<p>Scrafty has a unique Dark / Fighting typing which allows it to dominate Tyranitar and Cresselia, two of the greatest tanks in Doubles. Intimidate is a great ability in Doubles that works very well with Scrafty's impressive bulk. Its immunity to Psychic-type moves also allows it to stand out from Hitmontop, the other Intimidate-using Fighting-type in the tier. Scrafty also stands out from Hitmontop with its ability to bite off large chunks of health from Chandelure, Cresselia, and Latios with STAB Crunch. Its access to Fake Out further bolsters its utility in Doubles. However, Scrafty suffers from having a poor Speed stat, which leaves it outsped by a lot of Pokemon. Hitmontop gives Scrafty competition as a Fighting-type with Intimidate and has access to other useful support moves such as Wide Guard, Feint, and Helping Hand. Scrafty also lacks massive firepower, having only base 90 Attack and relatively weak STAB moves. However, it is able to hit many prevalent threats in Doubles for super effective damage, and can provide a more prolonged Intimidate + Fake Out support than Hitmontop thanks to its superior bulk.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Support
move 1: Fake Out
move 2: Drain Punch
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Detect / Ice Punch
item: Chople Berry / Sitrus Berry
ability: Intimidate
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Scrafty's best set in the Doubles metagame. Its typing and bulk allow it to take on common threats in Doubles, such as Cresselia, Latios, and Tyranitar. Scrafty's Fighting STAB also allows it to take on the most common answer to Intimidate users, Bisharp. Intimidate is a great ability, as being able to weaken opposing physical attackers is fairly valuable. Fake Out is the main move on this set, and allows Scrafty to stop one opponent from moving for the turn of its usage; the free damage is also noteworthy. Drain Punch serves as a decently powerful and reliable STAB move that also provides recovery. Crunch is secondary STAB move and provides great coverage with Drain Punch. Detect is a useful move in Doubles that can block a hit, and it's preferred over Protect as it bypasses Imprison. Ice Punch, however, allows Scrafty to land a strong blow on Garchomp, Landorus, and Thundurus.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Chople Berry is the preferred item here as it lets Scrafty avoid the OHKO from some Fighting-type moves, notably Hitmontop's Close Combat. A Sitrus Berry, however, can give Scrafty decent recovery outside of Drain Punch once. A Dark Gem can be useful to deliver a stronger Crunch for one turn. The utility that Chople Berry and Sitrus Berry provide, however, is much more useful. Leftovers is also a viable option, as Scrafty is quite durable and it also cancels out hail and sand damage. There are also a number of viable alternate EV spreads over the one listed. 252 HP / 72 Atk / 100 Def / 84 SpD with an Expert Belt is usable to survive Latios's Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor and Hitmontop's Fighting Gem-boosted Close Combat (after Intimidate), and provides as much power as maximum Attack Scrafty against targets weak to its moves. 252 HP and 60 Special Defense EVs can also be used to live a Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor from Modest Kyurem and Modest Latios. 4 Speed EVs allow Scrafty to outpace opposing Scrafty and use Fake Out against them.</p>

<p>Dusclops and Cresselia are both great teammates for Scrafty, sporting good synergy while being able to set up Trick Room; they can also run Helping Hand to let Scrafty deliver stronger blows. Jellicent is also a viable teammate that synergizes well defensively with Scrafty. Abomasnow has good offensive synergy as it can handle Flying-types such as Tornadus well with its Ice STAB, while Scrafty provides Intimidate support to lessen blows from Scizor and handles Tyranitar, Heatran, and Chandelure. Other Pokemon such as Reuniclus can be useful as well, as Reuniclus can handle Fighting-types, and Scrafty can aid in its ability to set up Trick Room with Fake Out and also handles opposing Psychic-, Ghost-, and Dark-type Pokemon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hi Jump Kick is a usable move over Drain Punch for its great power, but as Protect is an extremely common move in Doubles, using it is very risky. If used, however, a Pokemon with Imprison and Protect should be used to disable said move. A Choice Band can be used to give Scrafty more power at the cost of not being able to effectively utilize Fake Out. Dragon Dance can be used to make Scrafty faster and stronger, and can work with Follow Me or Rage Powder support, and it outspeeds Tornadus after one boost. Outside of that, however, it's fairly risky to set up with. Bulk Up is also a usable option to boost Scrafty's power and bulk, and works quite well with Intimidate. Moxie is a decent ability that allows Scrafty to become pretty scary after a few KOs, and is good for Trick Room teams. Low Kick can be used to do more damage to heavier opponents, but misses out on the recovery and consistency Drain Punch provides. Taunt enables Scrafty to stop Trick Room users, but is very situational otherwise. Finally, ChestoRest can be used to fully heal Scrafty once.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hitmontop is best answer to Scrafty available, taking little damage from Scrafty thanks to Intimidate, while hitting back hard with Close Combat. Landorus-T also has Intimidate, while Breloom, Hariyama, and Conkeldurr can hit Scrafty hard with their Fighting STAB. Toxicroak and Heracross resist both of Scrafty's STAB moves and hit it fairly hard in return, making them good checks. Tornadus has Flying STAB to nail Scrafty, as well as Defiant to benefit from Intimidate. Gyarados and Salamence can take on most of what Scrafty has to throw at them thanks to Intimidate, though Salamence must be wary of Ice Punch. Metagross and Togekiss have enough bulk to take whatever Scrafty has to offer and can hit back fairly hard. Sableye has Will-O-Wisp to burn Scrafty and weaken its damage output. Overall, the best way to handle Scrafty is by taking it on with something reasonably bulky.</p>