[Overview]

<p>When Ghost Arceus takes His place on the battlefield, He is certain to frighten the opponent to no end. Blessed with outstanding bulk, only two weaknesses, two immunities, and perfect coverage when using Judgment and Focus Blast, Calm Mind Ghost Arceus is one of the most devastating sweepers in Ubers. Scant few Pokemon can claim to safely check Him, especially if Stealth Rock is up. In addition to His sweeping capabilities, He is a terrific spinblocker that is capable of beating all Rapid Spin users one-on-one. Ghost Arceus is also versatile, as He is capable of running support, lead, and Swords Dance sets to varying degrees of effectiveness.</p>

<p>As good as Ghost Arceus is, He does not come without His faults. Most notably, Ghost Arceus is vulnerable to all forms of status. Both Toxic and Thunder Wave can put a damper on His sweeping capabilities. In addition, two relatively useless resistances to Bug- and Poison-type attacks limit His opportunities to set up in the face of powerful attacks, although He possesses the bulk to set up on weaker neutral attacks like Choice Scarf Palkia's Spacial Rend. Finally, the general reliance on inaccurate moves such as Focus Blast and Will-O-Wisp makes some of His sets prone to bad luck. Do not let these drawbacks fool you into thinking Ghost Arceus is easily taken down, lest you forever be haunted by the memory of Ghost Arceus sending your entire team to the dark, cold afterlife.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Focus Blast / Fire Blast
move 4: Recover
item: Spooky Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Ghost Arceus's best set, and one of the most dangerous sets in all of Ubers. Though Ghost Arceus does not hit that hard right off the bat, it is capable of sweeping entire teams after just one or two uses of Calm Mind. Its terrific bulk and lack of weaknesses enable it to set up a Calm Mind on many prominent Pokemon, such as Latias and most variants of Palkia. Judgment is Ghost Arceus's obligatory STAB move, and its already good 100 Base Power is boosted further by Spooky Plate. Focus Blast hits Normal-, Steel-, and Dark-types super effectively, which is critical because those are the only three types that either resist or possess an immunity to Ghost Arceus's STAB. Though Focus Blast is its best coverage move, Fire Blast is an acceptable replacement on sun teams due to its higher accuracy and reasonable power against the types that resist Judgment. Notably, Fire Blast helps break specially defensive Forretress, which gives Ghost Arceus a harder time than almost any other spinner if it carries Toxic. Unfortunately, Fire Blast leaves Ghost Arceus walled by Tyranitar and cannot break Steel-types, such as bulky Excadrill and Steel Arceus in the rain, so Ghost Arceus will be reliant on Drought support when using it. Finally, Recover replenishes Ghost Arceus's health, which is important for pulling off sweeps and repeatedly switching into deadly threats like Latios. However, Substitute can be used on offensive teams that lack a status absorber, as this fixes Ghost Arceus's inherent weakness to status when slower threats attempt to poison or paralyze it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In general, the given EV spread is ideal because it allows Ghost Arceus to switch in on the likes of Latias and Latios. Ghost Arceus can do more than just spinblock and sweep; the ability to check most Psychic-types found in Ubers is a godsend for offensive teams. The HP investment allows Ghost Arceus to do a great job of this, as it can eat a Draco Meteor even after switching into entry hazards and Recover off the damage before it can be struck again. Speed tying other Arceus formes can help win Calm Mind wars and perhaps prevent weakened support Arceus from crippling Ghost Arceus with status, but an alternative EV spread with 176 Speed EVs still allows Ghost Arceus to outrun Latias and Latios while investing some in Special Attack. Finally, Ghost Arceus can maximize its Special Attack stat instead of HP. Though the immediate power is nice and allows Ghost Arceus to OHKO most Ho-Oh at +1 after Stealth Rock damage, it causes Ghost Arceus to lose the ability to switch in and check threats as reliably. For example, Latios has a chance to OHKO uninvested Ghost Arceus after Stealth Rock and Spikes with Draco Meteor. With that said, any Ghost Arceus that uses Substitute over Recover should use maximum Special Attack, as Substitute places emphasis on sweeping over checking threats.</p>

<p>Be careful about switching Ghost Arceus in to spinblock if you only have one layer of entry hazards up. Weigh risk versus reward when considering switching Ghost Arceus into a spinner, because Toxic is a very common move on Forretress, Excadrill, and Tentacruel. You also risk a 2HKO by Kabutops in the rain, although Ghost Arceus can easily switch into Cloyster, assuming it has taken Stealth Rock damage. Because Ghost Arceus is such a deadly sweeper, it's often worth allowing a spin in exchange for keeping status off of Ghost Arceus. If your opponent lacks a Dark Arceus, specially defensive Kyogre, Ho-Oh, or Darkrai, a healthy Ghost Arceus will probably do good damage to your opponent's team. However, if you have two or more hazards up, it's usually worth sending Ghost Arceus in, especially if it has not been revealed yet. Although a skilled opponent will assume you carry a Ghost Arceus if you carry more than one hazard and lack a Giratina forme, they will have more incentive to click Rapid Spin anyway if hazards are accumulating on their side of the field.</p>

<p>Knowing when to set up a Calm Mind and when to Recover or attack are similar to using other Calm Mind Arceus formes. Set up once your opponent's counters are gone and checks such as Skarmory and Kyogre are weakened. If your opponent has healthy counters such as Life Orb Ho-Oh or Roar Kyogre, setting up will be for naught. However, there's nothing wrong with setting up to cripple Ghost Arceus soft checks, like Skarmory, forcing them to phaze Ghost Arceus out and possibly be unable to check it again during the match.</p>

<p>Keep Ghost Arceus unrevealed for as long as possible. Not only might it be able to bait your opponent into wasting a turn attempting to spin hazards away, but it can also use Choice Scarf Terrakion's Close Combat as a free setup opportunity. Your opponent might become more willing to lose their best options versus Ghost Arceus, such as Darkrai or Ho-Oh, if they do not know which Arceus forme you are using.</p>

<p>Choice Scarf Terrakion is a terrific partner for Ghost Arceus. It can absorb a Dark Void from Darkrai and/or outright revenge kill it, and it can deal massive damage to Chansey and Blissey. It also OHKOes Ho-Oh with Stone Edge. Genesect is another Choice Scarf user that works well with Ghost Arceus, as the bug resists both of Ghost Arceus's weaknesses and has the ability to revenge kill Darkrai with U-turn. Stealth Rock support is mandatory to help break Ho-Oh; Dialga and Tyranitar can reliably set up Stealth Rock while providing Dark- and Ghost-type resistances, while Ghost Arceus checks Mewtwo for them, unless it switches in on a Life Orb-boosted Psystrike. Lum Berry Tyranitar deserves special mention for its ability to defeat both Darkrai and Ho-Oh. In return, Ghost Arceus can switch in on Genesect that attempt to severely damage Tyranitar with U-turn. Status absorbers pair well with Ghost Arceus, as it is vulnerable to all status. Specially defensive Kyogre deserves a special mention because it can check Darkrai and phaze Pokemon that can set up on Ghost Arceus, like Dark Arceus. Tentacruel can spin hazards away to help Ghost Arceus set up, and absorbs the Toxic Spikes that Ghost Arceus loathes so much. Finally, Swift Swim sweepers such as Kabutops and Omastar can revenge kill Darkrai and destroy Ho-Oh while serving as secondary win conditions.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Judgment
move 2: Recover
move 3: Will-O-Wisp
move 4: Roar / Flamethrower
item: Spooky Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Support Ghost Arceus is an excellent support Pokemon due to its combination of outstanding bulk, Speed, and typing. Ghost Arceus is useful for far more than simply spinblocking; it can check and burn almost every physical attacker in the tier, as powerful physical Ghost and Dark moves are very rare in Ubers and Ghost Arceus can tank neutral hits well. Like other Ghost Arceus, it remains a solid answer to Psychic-type Pokemon too.</p>

<p>Judgment is Ghost Arceus's obligatory STAB move and hits most offensive Pokemon for decent damage, even without Special Attack investment. Recover is mandatory to replenish Ghost Arceus's health, allowing it to repeatedly come in to spinblock and check the appropriate threats. Will-O-Wisp cripples physical attackers and helps wear down bulky Pokemon like Dialga without reliable recovery. There are a few options for the last move. Roar is a great option for phazing out setup sweepers, such as Calm Mind Arceus. It also racks up entry hazard damage, and Ghost Arceus's typing ensures that hazards will stay up as long as it doesn't faint, making it a great user of the move. Alternatively, Flamethrower can be used on sun teams to destroy Forretress and Ferrothorn, preventing them from setting up a significant amount of hazards on Ghost Arceus. Flamethrower also hits Excadrill hard, provided sun is up. It has little use outside of hitting these targets, however. Stone Edge can be used lure in and smack Ho-Oh if your team is weak to it, and Perish Song is an excellent move on stall teams to stop setup sweepers that are the last Pokemon standing.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In general, maximizing Ghost Arceus's bulk and Speed is ideal because doing so allows it to Recover off damage or cripple Pokemon with Will-O-Wisp before getting hit. However, there are a couple of alternative spreads. A 252 HP / 96 Def / 48 SpA / 112 Spe spread with a Timid nature is viable, as it allows Ghost Arceus to survive an Earthquake from a +2 Life Orb Groudon while still being able to outspeed Palkia. Ghost Arceus can also run maximum Defense to essentially counter all physical threats; this also makes switching into Mewtwo's Psystrike and weather sweepers easier. However, the significant loss of Speed means that fast Choice Specs Kyogre, Life Orb Reshiram, and other dangerous wallbreakers will outrun Ghost Arceus.</p>

<p>In general, Will-O-Wisp will be used more often than Judgment, as spreading burns will cause more damage to your opponent's team than Judgment. When using this variant of Ghost Arceus, be aware that it invites Ho-Oh to come in for free unless Ghost Arceus carries Stone Edge. If you see a Ho-Oh, consider utilizing double switches often so it does not use Ghost Arceus as a means to attain free turns. This set hates Toxic, but unlike the Calm Mind set, this isn't used as a win condition and thus has an easier time coming in on Rapid Spin users. In fact, support Ghost Arceus can spinblock for a long time, often for an entire match. Take advantage of this by using it on entry hazard-based teams, especially if Ghost Arceus carries Roar. Ghost Arceus is a threatening enough Pokemon in its own right to force switches, racking up further hazard damage.</p>

<p>Like most support Arceus, this set does not require much support of its own. However, there are still potential teammates that can make its job a lot easier. For example, Tentacruel can absorb Toxic Spikes while providing Rapid Spin support. In return, Ghost Arceus can check Mewtwo as long it is healthy. Pokemon that enjoy setting up on burned opponents, such as Double Dance Terrakion, also make good partners. Terrakion also resists Dark-type moves aimed at Ghost Arceus, making it a good Dark Arceus check. Finally, a Darkrai check such as specially defensive Kyogre or Choice Band Ho-Oh is mandatory.</p>

[SET]
name: Anti-Lead
move 1: Judgment
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Extreme Speed
move 4: Stealth Rock / Magic Coat
item: Spooky Plate
nature: Hasty
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This variant of Ghost Arceus has an excellent lead matchup versus most common leads, including Deoxys-S, Deoxys-A, Groudon, Skarmory, and Custap Berry Forretress. It also provides a Stealth Rock user that can wreck most spinners and all Magic Bounce users, making it a nightmare for Stealth Rock-weak teams to deal with. Judgment with maximum Special Attack investment supplies Ghost Arceus with a powerful STAB attack, while Flamethrower roasts Forretress and Excadrill. Extreme Speed is extremely useful for holding Deoxys formes to one entry hazard after they have been brought down to their Focus Sash with Judgment. For the last moveslot, Stealth Rock is desirable because Ghost Arceus has an easy time setting it up. However, one can opt for Magic Coat to further aggravate Deoxys formes and Forretress and foil attempts to status Ghost Arceus, at the expense of wasting Ghost Arceus's ability to laugh at Espeon and Xatu. Though it's risky to stay in against a Darkrai, Magic Coat can reflect back a predicted Dark Void as well. Magic Coat is also matchup reliant and there are games where you will not need it, whereas Stealth Rock is always reliable and mandatory on any viable Ubers team. Will-O-Wisp and Recover are viable options, but they are better left to the support set as this Ghost Arceus is a dedicated lead. Finally, Fire Blast can be used over Flamethrower to OHKO Ferrothorn if rain is not up. Note that Ghost Arceus can typically switch out and come back in once to spinblock its own hazard, even without Recover.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Anti-lead Ghost Arceus is an early-game Pokemon, so only use it on teams in need of a way to reliably deal with lead Deoxys formes. These teams must be able to pressure spinners because Ghost Arceus might not be around to spinblock its own Stealth Rock. The EV spread for this set is simple: max out its Special Attack and Speed because it isn't designed to check attackers throughout the game. Ghost Arceus also wants to hit spinners such as Tentacruel and bulky Excadrill as hard as it can with Judgment and Flamethrower, respectively, since they might attempt to wear Ghost Arceus down in hopes of spinning later in the match. The damage output against other leads like Groudon is noticeable as well. While this Ghost Arceus set is situational with high opportunity cost, it is so good at anti-leading many common threats that it's worth it for players who like getting off to strong starts.</p>

<p>Darkrai is by far the worst lead match-up for Ghost Arceus. Though Magic Coat variants can take a risk and attempt to reflect back a predicted Dark Void, this isn't reliable and can cause your team to start 6-5 if Darkrai chooses to attack. Pokemon that can handle lead Darkrai, such as RestTalk Kyogre and Lum Berry Dialga, are good ideas for teammates. Dialga is also a problem for Ghost Arceus, as it can shrug off Ghost Arceus's attacks while easily setting up its own Stealth Rock and wearing down Arceus with its powerful attacks. Offensive Groudon is a good teammate since it can lead and OHKO Dialga. Tyranitar beats Ghost Arceus 1-1 (despite fearing a potential Will-O-Wisp) and is also dealt with by Groudon. Finally, though not commonly used as a lead, Scarf Kyogre OHKOes Ghost Arceus with Water Spout. Palkia can deal with Kyogre and pressure all common Rapid Spin users to help preserve Ghost Arceus's Stealth Rock.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Shadow Force
move 2: Swords Dance
move 3: Brick Break / Earthquake
move 4: Shadow Claw
item: Spooky Plate
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 Def / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Swords Dance Ghost Arceus is rarity in high-level play, and for good reason; it has many common counters and has mediocre STAB moves that lack either power or reliability. However, it is capable of defeating foes that check its other sets, such as Ho-Oh and specially defensive Kyogre. Shadow Force allows Ghost Arceus to hit harder than other Swords Dance Arceus formes, but can be played around due to its charge turn, especially if your opponent has a Normal-type. Swords Dance boosts Ghost Arceus's Attack stat to a whopping 778 in just one turn of setup, allowing Shadow Force to hit extremely hard. Though Ghost Arceus's other moves are not nearly as dangerous, Brick Break and Earthquake are still necessary to hit Steel-types. Brick Break is preferred to smack Ferrothorn and Extreme Killer Arceus, but Earthquake gets a stronger hit on Pokemon like Steel Arceus and Dialga. Finally, Shadow Claw might seem redundant with Shadow Force, but it is necessary to foil Substitute users such as Lugia and makes it harder for the opponent to play around Ghost Arceus mid-game.</p>

<p>Though Ghost Arceus has some other moves at its disposal, they are almost entirely outclassed. Recover can be used to give Arceus longevity, but the combination of Shadow Force and Brick Break can be easily played around, especially early on in the game. Extreme Speed is an awful option due to its severe lack of power and does not threaten even modestly healthy Choice Scarf users, even after a Swords Dance boost. Also bear in mind that any Arceus using a Swords Dance / Shadow Claw / Brick Break / Extreme Speed set will be completely helpless against defensive teams, as it cannot even dent its counters with these weak moves. Overheat can be used over physical coverage to destroy Ferrothorn and Scizor, but is extremely weather-reliant.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In general, you should max out Attack and Speed as Ghost Arceus needs all the power and speed it can get to have a shot at dealing major damage. An alternative Adamant spread with 212 Speed is viable to further increase Ghost Arceus's damage output, but this leaves Ghost Arceus vulnerable to burns. Unlike Swords Dance Ground Arceus and Extreme Killer Arceus, this set does not have the luxury of packing significant bulk since it lacks Ground Arceus's ability to easily fit Recover in its moveset and Extreme Killer's STAB priority.</p>

<p>Conserve Ghost Arceus for as long as possible because it usually does not run Recover and is weak to all forms of status, so it gets few opportunities to switch in. It can come in on Fighting Arceus and Terrakion if need be, but beware of Toxic. Set up with Ghost Arceus as soon as you get it in, unless you need it to revenge kill something like a 30% health Extreme Killer Arceus. The reason for this is because Ghost Arceus will not find repeated opportunities to set up throughout the match due to its lack of bulk. It's up to the user to be responsible when using this set, so don't set up with Ghost Arceus when the opponent still has a healthy counter.</p>

<p>A major weakness of this set is how badly it loses to Pain Split Forretress, so this Ghost Arceus does not spinblock it as effectively as the Calm Mind variant. The lack of bulk means that it fares worse against Cloyster, Excadrill, and Kabutops as well, though it does fare better against Tentacruel barring a Scald burn. Because this Ghost Arceus variant does not spinblock as effectively as nearly any other spinblocker, do not use it on teams that rely significantly on entry hazards. Also, spinblock only if it is absolutely necessary; Ghost Arceus functions more as more of a late-game cleaner than anything else.</p>

<p>Though Swords Dance Ghost Arceus is a standalone sweeper that happens to possess the ability to spinblock, there a few good partners for it. Double Dance Groudon can help wear down most of its checks, such as Hippowdon and support Arceus formes. Alternatively, Rock Polish Groudon with a Fire move can lure in Forretress and Skarmory, though skilled opponents will not switch these Pokemon into Groudon very often. Mixed Rayquaza can break through walls like Groudon and severely weaken support Arceus. Finally, Choice Band Zekrom possesses the ability to destroy almost all defensive walls commonly found in Ubers, paving the way for a potential Arceus sweep. Bear in mind that this Ghost Arceus offers its teammates little support of its own, outside of the admittedly important niche of spinblocking.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Ghost Arceus is capable of running a Cosmic Power set with Roar, Recover, and Substitute. In conjunction with entry hazards, Ghost Arceus is capable of wrecking the opponent's team with the passive damage that Roar provides. Such a set should run maximum Speed so that it can phaze out walls before getting phazed out itself. Surf can be used on the support set with rain teams to reliably smack Excadrill, Ho-Oh, and Forretress. Toxic and Thunder Wave are viable on the support and anti-lead sets to spread status, but they leave Ghost Arceus unable to reliably deal with physical sweepers such as Double Dance Groudon and Extreme Killer Arceus. In addition, most of the Pokemon that switch into Ghost Arceus are slow and generally do not mind paralysis, while Toxic leaves both sets at the mercy of most Steel-types. Finally, Thunder can be used on the Calm Mind set to nail specially defensive Kyogre and Ho-Oh. However, Thunder is a terrible move if rain isn't up and leaves Ghost Arceus walled by Steel-types, so it is generally a mediocre option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Darkrai is an excellent answer to all variants of Ghost Arceus. It can outspeed Ghost Arceus and put it to sleep, and then proceed to butcher it with Dark Pulse. Darkrai cannot directly switch into a Focus Blast or Brick Break, however. Similarly, Dark Arceus beats Ghost Arceus courtesy of its typing and has an easier time switching directly into it, though Dark Arceus cannot put Ghost Arceus to sleep. If Stealth Rock is not up, Ho-Oh generally counters Ghost Arceus due to its titanic Special Defense and wallbreaking power. A Life Orb, sun-boosted Sacred Fire will rip away well over half of Ghost Arceus's health while possessing a 50% chance to burn. However, offensive Ho-Oh variants risk getting OHKOed by a +1 Judgment from max Special Attack Ghost Arceus if Stealth Rock is up, and can lose to the Swords Dance variant on the switch, even at full health. Choice Scarf users such as Zekrom and Kyogre can pick off weakened Ghost Arceus, even assuming Ghost Arceus has a Calm Mind boost in Kyogre's case. Similarly, weather sweepers such as Shiftry, Kabutops, and Omastar can revenge kill Ghost Arceus under their preferred weather. Omastar can OHKO Ghost Arceus with a Choice Specs-boosted Hydro Pump, though the other two need a little more prior damage on Ghost Arceus to take it down in one hit.</p>

<p>If you are unable to overwhelm Ghost Arceus via offensive pressure, it can still be checked via defensive measures. Specially defensive Kyogre counters the Calm Mind set, as it is not even 2HKOed by a +1 Judgment while it can phaze Ghost Arceus out with Roar. Chansey and Blissey both wall the Calm Mind and support sets, provided Ghost Arceus does not run Substitute, but they lose to the Swords Dance set. Jirachi is a good check at full health due to its excellent special bulk and ability to spread status. Jirachi takes good damage from boosted Judgments, so Ghost Arceus can circumvent weakened ones. Specially defensive Scizor with Toxic and Roost can check Ghost Arceus well unless it carries Fire Blast. Specially defensive Forretress and Tentacruel can lure Ghost Arceus in and cripple it with Toxic, and both have enough bulk to take a hit or two from a +1 Ghost Arceus. Specially defensive Skarmory can tank a +1 Focus Blast and phaze Ghost Arceus with Whirlwind. Skarmory also checks the Swords Dance set, though dislikes getting burned by the support set and can get zapped by the rare Thunder. Hippowdon, physically defensive Kyogre, Will-O-Wisp Arceus formes, and physically defensive Forretress all make good checks to the Swords Dance set.</p>

<p>If your team loses its primary Ghost Arceus check, there are several emergency options. In a pinch, Thundurus can sacrifice itself to cripple Ghost Arceus with Prankster Thunder Wave. Bisharp can hit Ghost Arceus very hard with Sucker Punch, though it does not necessarily OHKO and can be foiled by Substitute variants. Heatran can phaze Ghost Arceus out once with Roar or cripple it with Toxic, but it will take heavy damage from Focus Blast in the process. Genesect can attempt to repeatedly flinch Ghost Arceus with Iron Head, though this isn't very reliable because Genesect takes massive damage from both Fire Blast and a boosted Focus Blast. Finally, Chople Berry Tyranitar can take a Focus Blast and deal back heavy damage with Crunch.</p>