[Overview]

<p>Psychic Arceus carves out an excellent niche as one of the few Pokemon that can check Mewtwo and Deoxys-A effectively. Though at first glance Latias might appear to be the superior choice as a defensive Psychic-type, Psychic Arceus differentiates itself thanks to its better physical bulk, higher base Speed, a lack of weaknesses to common Ice- and Dragon-type attacks, and access to excellent support moves such as Will-O-Wisp, Stealth Rock, and Perish Song. Psychic Arceus is also much more difficult to trap with Pursuit, especially if it runs Will-O-Wisp. Though Psychic Arceus is most often seen running a support set, it can also run an effective Calm Mind set, as Psyshock gives it an edge in Calm Mind wars. That isn't to say that Psychic Arceus is flawless. Its typing lends it weaknesses to common Ghost-, Dark-, and Bug-type moves and only two resistances. It is also not threatening offensively unless it has multiple Calm Mind boosts, as Psychic STAB is mediocre in Ubers due to the many Pokemon that resist or carry immunities to Psychic moves. Psychic Arceus also struggles with common entry hazard setters because it rarely finds a moveslot for Fire Blast, although Psyshock variants can beat Tentacruel. If your team needs a check to powerful Psychic-types and can cover Psychic Arceus's weaknesses, it will not disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Will-O-Wisp
move 2: Recover
move 3: Ice Beam / Payback
move 4: Toxic / Stone Edge / Roar
item: Mind Plate
nature: Timid / Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 144 Def / 112 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Psychic Arceus is an excellent support Pokemon in Ubers due to its lack of relevant weaknesses to common physical attacks (barring Genesect's U-turn) and its ability to check threats such as Mewtwo, Deoxys-A, and Latias. Will-O-Wisp is an important move that allows Psychic Arceus to take advantage of its lack of physical weaknesses and superb bulk to burn almost all physical attackers in the tier without worry. It also provides a way to wear down Dialga and Forretress, two Pokemon Psychic Arceus despises. Recover is mandatory on Psychic Arceus to enable it to repeatedly check threats throughout the game. As Psychic STAB is underwhelming in Ubers, this variant of Psychic Arceus typically runs a coverage move in its place. Ice Beam is a good option to destroy Rayquaza and pressure Giratina-O, Groudon, and other Pokemon weak to Ice. However, should you opt for a spread that can reliably beat offensive Taunt Mewtwo, Payback can be used with a Jolly nature. Payback also deals good damage to Latias and Latios. The final move depends on the team's needs. Toxic is very viable even though Psychic Arceus already runs a status move, as Will-O-Wisp cannot shut down opposing Calm Mind Arceus formes like Toxic can. Toxic is also Psychic Arceus's best option against Lugia. Stone Edge can be used to lure and KO Ho-Oh if your team is weak to it. Finally, Roar is an excellent move on support Arceus in general, especially in conjunction with hazard support. It works best on Ice Beam variants that are inherently more susceptible to Calm Mind Latias and Latios.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Psychic Arceus to outrun Garchomp while providing as much physical bulk as possible to deal with threats such as Double Dance Groudon and Swords Dance Rayquaza. Bear in mind that Payback variants should run a Jolly nature over a Timid one, especially if they opt to run Stone Edge as well. A max Speed spread can be used to outrun Latias and Latios while speed tying other Arceus formes, but the extra Speed is generally not very useful. Psychic Arceus can run several moves not listed on this set with adequate effectiveness. It can serve as your team's Stealth Rock user, but only use Stealth Rock on Psychic Arceus as a last resort. Perish Song is an option on stall teams to serve as a win condition against setup sweepers. Magic Coat is another intriguing option that can surprise status users and hazard setters, such as Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Froslass.</p>

<p>Psychic Arceus excels on defensively oriented rain teams, where it can check Life Orb Mewtwo efficiently, as rain will prevent Fire Blast from 2HKOing Psychic Arceus. When using Psychic Arceus, remember that its job it to spread status while being able to check powerful Psychic-types and physical attackers, so use Will-O-Wisp and Recover liberally. Psychic Arceus will not need to attack very often, though it does need to hit Pokemon like Mewtwo, Rayquaza, and Deoxys-A with its coverage moves to actually defeat them one-on-one. Specially defensive Kyogre makes an excellent partner, as it can deal with Darkrai and Calm Mind Ghost Arceus while simultaneously weakening Mewtwo's Fire Blasts. Heatran is a good partner as well, as it resists all three of Psychic Arceus's weaknesses. In particular, Heatran can easily deal with special Genesect, which threatens to OHKO Psychic Arceus at +1 with Bug Buzz after Stealth Rock damage. In return, Psychic Arceus can burn Ground- and Fighting-types, such as Ground Arceus and Terrakion. Finally, Lustrous Orb Palkia pressures entry hazard setters that Psychic Arceus invites in and checks Kyogre, while Psychic Arceus can handle faster Dragon-types, such as Latias and Garchomp, in return.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psyshock
move 3: Recover
move 4: Focus Blast / Dark Pulse
item: Mind Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Psychic Arceus's access to STAB Psyshock. Calm Mind makes Psychic Arceus incredibly difficult to revenge on the special side, forcing the opponent to beat it with physical moves. Psyshock is what makes this set worthwhile, as it gives Psychic Arceus the potential to win most Calm Mind wars. Recover is mandatory on Psychic Arceus to increase its longevity. There are two quality options for the final slot. Focus Blast grants Psychic Arceus a way to beat the myriad of Steel-types that would otherwise wall it, such as Ferrothorn, Dialga, and Heatran. On the other hand, Dark Pulse allows Psychic Arceus to still function as an excellent check to Psychic-types like Latias, something this set cannot do well if you choose to forgo Dark Pulse. Both moves are equally viable, so the choice is up to you and typically depends on your team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This set opts for maximum Speed to tie opposing Arceus and outrun Latias and Latios; the extra Speed can prove critical in a Calm Mind war against the latter two as they also have access to Psyshock. Psychic Arceus is vulnerable to all forms of status, so while it is capable of setting up a Calm Mind in the face of many offensive threats, it struggles with both poison and paralysis. Also, if you see a Pokemon that easily walls Psychic Arceus, refrain from setting up a Calm Mind until the counter is sufficiently worn down. Toxic Spikes severely hampers Psychic Arceus, so Tentacruel makes a great partner for it. Tentacruel also possesses the ability to lure and cripple Psychic Arceus's checks with Toxic, such as Ghost Arceus, while Psychic Arceus can check Pokemon like Latios in return. Specially defensive Kyogre makes a great partner to this set because it can check Darkrai, Dark Arceus, and Ghost Arceus while weakening Ho-Oh's Sacred Fire. Ferrothorn and Forretress also make for good partners because both of them resist all of Psychic Arceus's weaknesses and can set up multiple layers of Spikes, helping to wear down its checks. In return, Psychic Arceus can check Terrakion and Fighting Arceus for Ferrothorn.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>If you are using Psychic Arceus on a sun team, Fire Blast is a viable option on both sets to nail bulky Excadrill and Forretress that attempt to spin on it. Fire Blast also stops Ferrothorn from setting up multiple layers of Spikes. Spacial Rend is a viable move on the support set to pressure Palkia, Reshiram, and other Dragon-types. Finally, Thunder Wave can be used as an alternative status move, though most of Psychic Arceus's common switch-ins are not bothered by it much.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Darkrai is the best check to Psychic Arceus in the game because it fears nothing Psychic Arceus can throw at it and it can hit Psychic Arceus super effectively with Dark Pulse. If Darkrai has not already put something to sleep, it can also use Dark Void on Psychic Arceus. Certain Calm Mind Arceus will beat Psychic Arceus one-on-one by virtue of typing, specifically Dark Arceus and Ghost Arceus. Ho-Oh is an excellent check to Psychic Arceus, though it must be wary of an uncommon Stone Edge from the support variant and a +1 Psyshock after Stealth Rock from the Calm Mind variant. A sun-boosted Sacred Fire will deal massive damage to Psychic Arceus while it will struggle to damage Ho-Oh in return. Dialga walls Psychic Arceus and can cripple it with Toxic or Thunder Wave. Focus Blast variants have an easier time wearing Dialga down, but even a +1 Focus Blast will not come close to OHKOing it. Heatran walls both of Psychic Arceus's sets and easily sets up Stealth Rock against it. Ferrothorn and Forretress can set up entry hazards against Arceus, too, though they dislike Will-O-Wisp and Magic Coat and despise the rare Fire Blast. Kyogre will easily beat Psychic Arceus one-on-one, as Psychic Arceus does not resist its powerful rain-boosted Water-type moves. Kyogre also takes little from any of its attacks and isn't too bothered by a Will-O-Wisp burn. Special Genesect will get a Special Attack boost from Download against the support variant and can proceed to destroy it with Bug Buzz. However, physical Genesect can only do around 50% with U-turn, so a healthy Psychic Arceus can simply Recover off the damage every time Genesect comes in. Note that physical Genesect deals upwards of 70% damage to the Calm Mind variant after its Download boost. Various other Pokemon, such as Kingdra, Omastar, and Toxic Jirachi, will easily beat Psychic Arceus one-on-one. In general, Psychic Arceus is hard to KO, but very easy to switch into.</p>