[Overview]

<p>While Beheeyem faces a lot of competition from the other Psychic-types in the tier, it has one thing going for it that all the others lack: Analytic. When coupled with Beheeyem's horrible Speed, Analytic lets Beheeyem hit like a truck against the majority of the tier. Beheeyem can also use Trick Room, which turns its horrible Speed into an advantage and lets it outspeed the majority of the tier. Unfortunately, Beheeyem only has the bulk to take a single strong hit, making it pretty hard to bring in without getting 2HKOed on the switch, especially as it will get outsped by pretty much everything. Finally, unlike other Psychic-type Pokemon such as Musharna and Mr. Mime, Beheeyem has a lot of difficulty dealing with Dark-types, as it has no way to avoid being trapped by Pokemon such as Skuntank and Liepard.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Psychic
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Signal Beam
move 4: Trick
item: Choice Specs
ability: Analytic
nature: Modest
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>If you are looking for one of the strongest wallbreakers in NU, you have come to the right place. With Choice Specs, Beheeyem has the ability to 2HKO every special wall in NU with the appropriate move and entry hazard support. Keep in mind that this set needs prediction to work perfectly, however, as otherwise it gets forced out often and will get worn down by entry hazard damage. Psychic is the mandatory STAB move and is also Beheeyem's strongest attack. Thunderbolt lets Beheeyem beat Mandibuzz easily and provides awsome coverage with Psychic. Signal Beam is mainly used to beat other Psychic-types and allows Beheeyem to hit Pokemon such as Shiftry, Exeggutor, and Cacturne, which resist its other two moves. With these three moves, Beheeyem can hit the whole tier for at least neutral damage with the appropriate move, making it difficult to wall. Finally, Trick allows Beheeyem to cripple the opponent's walls.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Psyshock is a good option over Psychic as it allows Beheeyem to beat special walls more easily, but it's weaker than Psychic against everything else. Hidden Power Ground can also be used to hit Steel-types harder, but Thunderbolt already does a lot to them and most Steel-types can't 2HKO Beheeyem back anyway. Stealth Rock support greatly helps Beheeyem break walls, letting it OHKO Mandibuzz and 2HKO Regice. Speaking of Stealth Rock, Probopass is a great partner for Beheeyem as it can set up Stealth Rock, resists the Bug-, Dark-, and Ghost-type moves which Beheeyem despises, traps troublesome Steel-types, and provides a slow Volt Switch to bring its teammate in safely. Pokemon such as Shell Smash Carracosta and Swords Dance Samurott are also amazing partners as they appreciate Beheeyem's ability to break through walls to help them clean later in the game. Beheeyem's utility as a wallbreaker also makes fast Pokemon such as Tauros, Charizard, and Swellow good partners as they appreciate Beheeyem's ability to OHKO or 2HKO every wall in the tier, clearing a path for destruction. Fighting-types such as Sawk and Gurdurr are also amazing partners as they can easily handle Dark-types for Beheeyem, who is too slow to hit them before they attack it except on the switch-in, while Beheeyem can easily break walls for them to sweep later. Finally, Dark-types such as Skuntank and Mandibuzz are also good partners as they can easily take on the Ghost-types that force Beheeyem out. Speaking of Dark-types, Shiftry pairs well with Beheeyem, as Beheeyem can easily OHKO Mandibuzz, while Shiftry can deal with the Ghost-, Steel-, and Psychic-types that give Beheeyem trouble, such as Haunter, Metang, Golurk, and Gardevoir.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Signal Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Analytic
nature: Quiet
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike the Choice Specs set, this set focuses on sweeping later in the game. Trick Room is the most important move here as it allows Beheeyem to outspeed almost everything in the tier. Keep in mind that Trick Room is mainly useful against offensive teams as Beheeyem will easily outspeed a majority of the Pokemon found on those types of teams. Psychic is used as it is Beheeyem's strongest STAB move, while Thunderbolt gives Beheeyem fantastic neutral coverage. This combination only misses out on a few Pokemon such as Exeggutor and Shiftry, both of which are OHKOed by Signal Beam. Thunderbolt also allows Beheeyem to beat Mandibuzz easily.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the preferred item for this set as it allows Beheeyem to hit as hard as possible while still letting it switch moves. Psyshock can be used over Psychic to beat special walls more easily, but Psychic is stronger against everything else. Hidden Power Ground can also be used to hit Steel- and Dark-types such as Probopass, Bastiodon, Metang, and Skuntank harder, but it's pretty weak otherwise. Beheeyem can also use Nasty Plot over Signal Beam to help deal with bulkier Pokemon and special walls, but it's hard to pull this off with its horrible Speed and average bulk, and leaves Beheeyem walled by Pokemon such as Exeggutor and Shiftry.</p>

<p>As for teammates, Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Sawk, and Primeape can deal with bothersome Steel- and Dark-types for Beheeyem, while Beheeyem can easily force out the Poison-types that these Fighting-types bring in and set up safely. Dark-types such as Skuntank and Shiftry are also awesome partners; the former can easily take on Psychic- and Ghost-types for Beheeyem, who can in turn set up Trick Room and easily force out the Fighting-types that can take on Skuntank, while the latter can take on Psychic-, Ghost-, and Steel-types with its coverage moves while Beheeyem easily beats Mandibuzz for it. Finally, Probopass pairs well with Beheeyem as it resists Bug-, Dark-, and Ghost-type moves, can set up Stealth Rock to support its teammates, traps troublesome Steel-types, and provides a slow Volt Switch to bring its teammates in safely, while Beheeyem can in turn easily deal with the Fighting-types that threaten Probopass.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Beheeyem can use Nasty Plot or Calm Mind with either three offensive moves or two offensive moves alongside Recover, but Beheeyem isn't bulky enough to set up more than once, lacks the Speed to avoid being revenge killed by faster Pokemon, and is outclassed by most of the other Psychic-types in the tier in this regard, such as Musharna and Duosion, both of which do it better. Shadow Ball can be used to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types harder, but Beheeyem needs both Thunderbolt and Signal Beam to beat Steel-, Dark-, and Psychic-types such as Mandibuzz, Probopass, and Exeggutor. Beheeyem can also run dual screens, but it is outclassed in this by Gardevoir, which has access to Destiny Bond and is fast enough to get Reflect and Light Screen up before getting KOed. Finally, Beheeyem can run Substitute on the Trick Room set to avoid Sucker Punch from Pokemon such as Shiftry and Skuntank, but needs its coverage moves to be able to beat as many Pokemon as possible.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It is actually fairly hard to find a true counter to Beheeyem as few Pokemon can switch into Beheeyem 100% of the time thanks to its incredible power. Unfortunately for Beheeyem, its low base Speed coupled with its average bulk makes it quite easy for faster offensive Pokemon to outspeed it and hit it hard, although this doesn't work as well against the Trick Room set. Dark-types that commonly carry Sucker Punch, such as Skuntank and Shiftry, can revenge kill any of Beheeyem's sets as they can easily OHKO it with their strong priority move. Beheeyem also has problems playing around Liepard, which can Encore it into Trick Room, hit it hard with Sucker Punch, and trap it with Pursuit. Steel-types such as Bronzor, Metang, Bastiodon, and Probopass can serve as shaky checks, since the best they can do is cripple Beheeyem with status, or in Metang's case, 3HKO it with Meteor Mash. If Trick Room isn't up, Ghost- and Bug-types, such as Haunter, Golurk, and Pinsir can also easily force Beheeyem out with their strong super effective STAB moves. Kangaskhan is also a good check to Beheeyem as it can wear down and KO Beheeyem with the combination of Fake Out and Sucker Punch. Furthermore, if Trick Room is down, Kangaskhan can outspeed and KO Beheeyem with Double-Edge.</p>

<p>While special walls such as Audino and Lickilicky can only take a single hit from Beheeyem, they can easily retaliate back with a status move which puts Beheeyem on a timer and can easily stop it from sweeping. Taunt is also a good way to deal with the Trick Room set, but most Taunt users won't enjoy taking an attack from Beheeyem. Finally, Beheeyem is worn down easily because of its average bulk and susceptibility to all forms of entry hazards, leaving it prone to being 2HKOed if it tries to switch into any attacks.</p>
