[Overview]

<p>Butterfree's main claim to fame is its access to Quiver Dance, a claim shared by several other Bug-types. However, what sets Butterfree apart from the rest are its access to Sleep Powder and its two abilities: Tinted Lens and Compoundeyes. Tinted Lens allows Butterfree to power up resisted moves on sweeping sets and thus to reduce the need for coverage moves, while Compoundeyes makes Butterfree's support options more accurate. Of course, Sleep Powder is the move which truly makes Butterfree viable, as it prevents most would-be counters from safely switching in and creates valuable setup opportunities that Butterfree would otherwise not have due to its poor bulk. Unfortunately, Butterfree is still plagued by its poor typing and defenses. While Butterfree might be versatile, the prevalence of Stealth Rock significantly cuts down on its longevity and effectiveness in the NU metagame.</p>

[SET]
name: Quiver Dance
move 1: Quiver Dance
move 2: Sleep Powder
move 3: Bug Buzz
move 4: Substitute
item: Leftovers / Bug Gem
ability: Tinted Lens
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Quiver Dance, Butterfree functions as a capable setup sweeper, while being able to incapacitate a slew of slower Pokemon with Sleep Powder when necessary. Sleep Powder is one of this set's most important qualities, and is the move that allows this set to function. Butterfree has the ability to force out a myriad of defensive Pokemon, such as Musharna, Tangela, and Alomomola, as well as Choice-locked Fighting and Ground-types, such as Sawk and Golurk, respectively, which allows Butterfree to use Sleep Powder on your opponent's initial switch-in and gain setup opportunities. Alternatively, sometimes it is better to save Sleep Powder for your opponent's main counter to Butterfree and set up to begin with instead. Bug Buzz is the only attacking move that Butterfree needs on this set, as Tinted Lens doubles the power of resisted moves. Substitute allows Butterfree to avoid both status from Pokemon such as Musharna and Mandibuzz and revenge killing from Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Primeape.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Speed investment with a Timid nature allows Butterfree to outspeed Swellow after a Quiver Dance Boost and tie with positive-natured Ludicolo in the rain after two boosts. However, if outspeeding those threats isn't a big deal, using a Modest nature gives Butterfree more power and still allows it to outspeed maximum Speed Serperior after a boost. Even though it might seem attractive on a Pokemon that can boost its Special Defense, a defensive EV spread is better left to Pokemon with actual defenses. Leftovers is usually the preferred item as it makes up for the HP lost creating Substitutes and switching into Stealth Rock, but if you want a boosting item, then Bug Gem is the best option as it allows Butterfree to gain some important KOs, such as against Charizard after Stealth Rock damage without any boosts. Alternatively, Insect Plate and Life Orb are suitable replacements. Insect Plate gives a consistent 20% boost in power to Bug Buzz without recoil, while Life Orb allows Butterfree to OHKO Pokemon such as Choice Band Sawk and Braviary after a boost and Stealth Rock damage. Roost is a possible choice over Substitute that allows Butterfree to heal off damage taken from Stealth Rock or from weak attacks, such as Giga Drain from Roselia and Foul Play from Mandibuzz.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock support is extremely helpful, as it allows Butterfree to cleanly OHKO Primeape after a Quiver Dance boost with no boosting item, while getting the OHKO on Choice Band Sawk and Braviary with a boost and a Bug Gem. In general, many of Butterfree's checks tend to be weak to Stealth Rock, such as Regice, Charizard, and Rotom-S. Golem is a good partner for Butterfree, as are most Rock- and Ground-types, since it only shares Butterfree's weakness to Ice-type attacks, and it resists every other one of Butterfree's weaknesses; in exchange, Butterfree 4x resists Fighting- and Grass-type moves, and is immune to Ground-type moves. Other good options for the same role include Golurk, Piloswine, and Seismitoad. Probopass is also worth mentioning, as it can trap opposing Steel-types that wall Butterfree, and can gain momentum with a slow Volt Switch. Butterfree also appreciates Rapid Spin support; Wartortle is the best of the bunch in NU, as it resists Ice-type moves and has the combination of Foresight and Rapid Spin to ensure hazards leave your side of the field. Butterfree has trouble breaking through dedicated special walls such as Regice, Audino, and Lickilicky. Choice Band Sawk (and to a lesser extent, Gurdurr and Primeape) is a good partner, as it can KO all of those Pokemon with ease. It also functions as a good anti-lead, as it can OHKO most Stealth Rock setters through Sturdy due to Mold Breaker.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Powder
move 1: Sleep Powder
move 2: Stun Spore
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Tailwind
item: Focus Sash
ability: Compound Eyes
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Butterfree's plethora of status moves allow it to support its own team, and make it capable of crippling a good portion of the opposing team. Compoundeyes increases the accuracy of its moves, improving the accuracy of Butterfree's status moves to 97.5%. Sleep Powder is the main move, temporarily removing an opposing Pokemon from battle. This allows it to stop most hazard setters, or to neutralize a problematic Pokemon for your team. Stun Spore is an auxiliary move that can allow Butterfree to paralyze a switch-in after Sleep Clause is in effect. It's also a nice alternative for hitting Primeape on the switch, as well as being usable when Sleep Clause is in effect. Stun Spore is also a very effective move to use when you are unwilling to waste Sleep Powder on a Pokemon that doesn't significantly threaten your team. U-turn is an integral move as it helps ease prediction after one of your opponent's Pokemon has been put to sleep by allowing Butterfree to get a teammate in for free regardless of what your opponent does. Tailwind is mostly filler, but doubling your team's Speed can be useful if Butterfree is too low on health to support the team any further.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread allows Butterfree to outspeed as many Pokemon as possible and inflict status upon them before they can move. A spread with maximum Special Attack and Speed investment with a Timid nature and Bug Buzz instead of Tailwind can be worth considering to prevent Butterfree from being forced out by Sap Sipper Pokemon. This set doesn't mind Stealth Rock on its side nearly as much, as it is meant to simply inflict as much status as possible and then bring in a teammate safely. Thanks to Butterfree's ability to cripple a significant portion of teams, Pokemon that can take advantage of free turns or being able to outspeed more Pokemon, such as various wallbreakers or setup sweepers, are good teammates. Sawk, Fraxure, Carracosta, and Marowak are good examples of such Pokemon. Pokemon that can beat Sap Sipper users are also good teammates, with Gurdurr being a very effective option. Toxic is a viable option to use over Tailwind, as it allows Butterfree to cripple defensive Pokemon that don't particularly mind being paralyzed after Sleep Clause is in effect.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Rain Dance in conjunction with Damp Rock or Sunny Day in conjunction with Heat Rock are viable combinations that can be used on the support set, as Butterfree is able to set up weather reliably with the help of Sleep Powder, and it can provide a free switch for a weather sweeper by using U-turn. Hidden Power Ground and Hidden Power Rock are possible options, as the former threatens Bastiodon and Probopass, while the latter deals with Charizard. Giga Drain and Psychic are attacking options that can be used on the Quiver Dance set, with the former hitting Ground-, Rock-, and Water-types, and the latter threatening Garbodor and Fighting-types. Neither of these moves provides notable coverage otherwise, however, and Tinted Lens reduces the need for such coverage. Whirlwind might seem enticing in order to shuffle your opponent's team, but Butterfree generally has better things to do and it doesn't help Butterfree in any significant way.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It is difficult to counter Butterfree as Sleep Powder can cripple practically any counter and turn it into a setup opportunity, while U-turn allows it to escape from any threat. The single most reliable way of crippling it is Stealth Rock, as it drastically detracts from Butterfree's ability to sweep or disrupt its opponents consistently. However, Sleep Powder prevents many common Stealth Rock users from setting it up. As for countering Butterfree directly, Sleep Talk users such as Regice or Munchlax are some of the best counters, as they don't mind absorbing status and can easily shrug off even boosted attacks due to their excellent Special Defense. In return, they can immediately threaten Butterfree with their respective STAB moves, or even phaze it out with Whirlwind in Munchlax's case. Pokemon that are immune to sleep thanks to their abilities, such as Vital Spirit Electabuzz and Primeape and Sap Sipper Miltank, can take advantage of Butterfree's mediocre initial power and proceed to dispatch it.</p>

<p>If you do not have an actual way of stopping Butterfree from putting a Pokemon to sleep, sacrificing a Pokemon to Sleep Powder is a viable option; once Sleep Clause is active, Butterfree is much easier to deal with as it isn't particularly fast or powerful. Even after a Quiver Dance boost, many bulky Pokemon can still tank a hit and wear Butterfree down considerably if they are not weak to its STAB move. Bastiodon is a solid counter to Butterfree, as it can tank the Quiver Dance set very well, does not care about paralysis, and can either Roar away its Quiver Dance boosts or bounce back Sleep Powder with Magic Coat. Most specially defensive Pokemon, such as Camerupt, Lickilicky, Audino, Altaria, and Probopass, can easily wall Butterfree and phaze it out or outright beat it. Fast Substitute users, particularly Articuno, Driftblim, and Charizard, can use Butterfree as setup fodder, especially the dual powder set. Butterfree is not particularly difficult to revenge kill; most Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Rotom-S, Charizard, and Braviary can easily outspeed and pick it off. As Butterfree is quite frail on the physical side and only resists Mach Punch, most priority users can also revenge kill it as long as it is not behind a Substitute. Pokemon that use Rock Blast, such as Golem, Piloswine, and Garbodor, are effective at dealing with Butterfree, as they can bypass Substitute and can generally hit it for massive damage.</p>