[Overview]

<p>To put it frankly, Delcatty is a terrible Pokemon, even in NU. Its stats are extremely underwhelming and its Normal typing does it no favors, as it gives it a lot of competition in the tier that it can't keep up with. However, Delcatty has an expansive movepool and a decent ability in Wonder Skin, giving it an extremely small niche in the tier as a Baton Pass user. Before using Delcatty on your team, you should always "paws" and consider something else in its place, as there is almost certainly something that can perform its role better for your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind + Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Hyper Voice
move 4: Substitute
item: Leftovers
ability: Wonder Skin
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 200 Def / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the only set that Delcatty can use in NU without being completely outclassed. Baton Pass is the key move on this set, allowing Delcatty to support specially offensive teammates with Calm Mind boosts. Hyper Voice allows Delcatty to make use of those Calm Mind boosts if it is hit by Taunt or if passing is not an option. Substitute shields Delcatty from hits if it manages to force something out, and Substitute passing can often support a teammate's sweep just as well as passing Calm Mind, giving the recipient a free switch-in.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Delcatty to outspeed max base 45 Speed Pokemon, such as Golem and Marowak, while making Delcatty as physically bulky as possible. Wonder Skin is the chosen ability, giving Delcatty a chance to set up in front of Taunt, phazing moves, and status moves. It is also the only reason to use Delcatty as a Calm Mind passer, as it is outclassed by most others in every other way. Good teammates to consider for Delcatty are those that appreciate the Calm Mind boosts while being able to switch into moves aimed at Delcatty. Charizard, Musharna, Exeggutor, and Haunter all appreciate the Special Attack boosts and can switch into the Fighting-type moves aimed at Delcatty with ease. Specially attacking Samurott is another good option to receive these boosts, and has the bulk to take most of the Fighting-type moves aimed at Delcatty. Pursuit trappers such as Skuntank are greatly appreciated by Delcatty, as trapping Ghost-types allows Delcatty to stand a chance if it is your last Pokemon. It should be pointed out that Delcatty is completely outclassed by Mr. Mime and Musharna on full Baton Pass teams, and therefore should not be considered for a spot on said teams. Delcatty really only belongs on joke teams, to be quite frank.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As stated previously, Delcatty has an expansive movepool that most Pokemon would kill for. However, it is outclassed at anything else it tries to do. A set using Normalize and Thunder Wave allows Delcatty to paralyze Ground-types, but it leaves it helpless against Ghost-types, including Golurk, the most common Ground-type. Delcatty could make use of Fake Out and Sucker Punch as a makeshift revenge killer, but it is completely outclassed in this role by Kangaskhan, which has better Speed, bulk, and Attack. Delcatty has access to Wish and Heal Bell, but Audino and Lickilicky are both better users of these moves, as they have better bulk, offensive pressure, and Regenerator in Audino's case. Delcatty can possibly run a Calm Mind set without Baton Pass, as it has an expansive special movepool, but its measly Special Attack makes it an inferior choice to the likes of Musharna and Serperior.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Delcatty has the offensive presence of a newly born kitten and is probably even easier to defeat. Any Fighting-type move or any relatively strong STAB move will easily dispose of Delcatty. Delcatty can even be phazed out by attacking moves such as Dragon Tail and Circle Throw, meaning that specially defensive Throh and Zweilous are "purrfect" answers to Delcatty. Basically anything that can switch into Delcatty and OHKO or 2HKO it or its Baton Pass recipient are good options as checks.</p>