[Overview]

<p>Given that many Psychic-types in the tier are competing with it for a teamslot, Duosion struggles to make a mark. It is mostly outclassed by Musharna due to the latter's better bulk. It is also extremely slow. However, it has an amazing ability in Magic Guard, which means it cannot be Toxic stalled or worn down by entry hazards, unlike Musharna. Alternatively, Regenerator is also a fantastic ability that allows Duosion to stay healthy throughout the match without having to rely on Recover. Unlike most bulky Psychic-types, Duosion is able to beat Mandibuzz thanks to Magic Guard and its access to Thunder.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Thunder / Signal Beam
move 4: Recover
item: Eviolite
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Duosion is a fantastic late-game setup sweeper. Due to its immunity to residual damage, this set is an amazing weapon against stall teams. Calm Mind allows Duosion to boost its already fantastic Special Attack even further while raising its Special Defense as well, making it hard to revenge kill with special attackers such as Gardevoir. Psychic is Duosion's STAB move that can 2HKO a large portion of the tier when boosted. Thunder is a useful coverage move and also represents Duosion's main niche over Musharna, as it allows Duosion to OHKO Mandibuzz after Stealth Rock damage at +1. It also hits the likes of Metang and Skuntank extremely hard. However, Signal Beam is another option that grants extremely good coverage together with Psychic, and unlike Thunder, has more accuracy and can hit other Psychic-types harder, particularly Exeggutor. Recover allows Duosion to stay healthy after boosting, and is another factor that separates Duosion from Musharna, as Recover has more PP than Moonlight and is not affected by the weather, giving Duosion the edge when in a Calm Mind war.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Eviolite is the only viable item as it makes Duosion's bulk usable. Because Duosion is already boosting its Special Attack and Special Defense, the EVs emphasize on Defense to allow Duosion to sponge some weaker physical hits. Hidden Power Ground is an option to defeat Bastiodon and Skuntank, but does not grant much additional coverage. Psyshock is a decent alternative STAB move, which allows Duosion to hit special walls and opposing Calm Mind users hard. However, after a few boosts, Duosion will plow through most special walls anyway. In terms of teammates, Duosion appreciates partners that can defeat the Dark-type opponents that threaten it. Hence, Fighting-type teammates such as Sawk and Gurdurr are appreciated for their ability to switch into these Dark-types and force them out. Skuntank is another great teammate as it can use Pursuit to trap opposing Ghost- and Psychic-types that threaten Duosion, and it is extremely helpful in avoiding a Calm Mind war. Gurdurr, Skuntank, and Duosion also form an effective Dark / Psychic / Fighting core. Duosion appreciates Toxic Spikes support, allowing it to break through opponents much more quickly and wear down checks such as Musharna. Garbodor and Roselia are two decent teammates that can set up Toxic Spikes. Magnet Pull Probopass is also a great teammate for its ability to remove Metang and Bastiodon, two troublesome foes for Duosion.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Thunder
move 4: Signal Beam / Hidden Power Ground
item: Eviolite
ability: Regenerator
nature: Quiet
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 3 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Duosion is a very effective standalone Trick Room sweeper due to its terrible Speed and high Special Attack. Unlike other offensive Trick Room sweepers, Duosion can restore its HP every time it pivots out thanks to Regenerator, which makes it harder to wear down by residual damage and can thus sustain a sweep for a long period of time. Psychic is Duosion's most powerful STAB move, and with Trick Room making Duosion extremely fast, it becomes a frightening sweeper. Thunder allows Duosion to 2HKO Mandibuzz and in general grants decent neutral coverage with Psychic. Signal Beam allows Duosion to defeat Exeggutor, Cacturne, and Shiftry, as well as to hit opposing Psychic-types hard. On the other hand, Hidden Power Ground allows Duosion to defeat the likes of Skuntank, Bastiodon, and Metang.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>3 Speed IVs are required to give Duosion a 70 Base Power Hidden Power Ground. However, if Hidden Power Ground is not used, the Speed IVs should be lowered to 0 instead. Regenerator is the chosen ability, as it allows Duosion to stay healthy throughout the match and to lessen its reliance on Recover, hence giving it the space to run more coverage moves. Magic Guard can be used instead, but this set is meant to take down faster teams, which usually do not use status moves. If using Magic Guard, Recover can be used to allow Duosion to heal itself, but if not then Regenerator already does that sufficiently. Duosion also doesn't have enough bulk to spend a turn using Recover without investment in Defense. Life Orb can be used over Eviolite to grant Duosion extra power, but the loss in bulk means that Duosion finds lots of trouble setting up. Gurdurr is an amazing partner, soaking up Dark-type moves while benefiting from Trick Room. Slow but powerful teammates are also good options as backup if Duosion faints while Trick Room is still up. These include Guts Ursaring, Marowak, and Choice Band Lickilicky. However, Trick Room should not be relied on too much as its duration is greatly limited, and it is advisable to only include one of such teammates. Magnet Pull Probopass is another decent teammate thanks to its ability to trap and defeat troublesome Steel-types, such as Metang, Bastiodon, and opposing Probopass. It also provides entry hazard support to aid Duosion, takes Ghost-, Bug-, and Dark-type hits, and can give Duosion a safe switch in with a slow Volt Switch. While not necessary, Duosion appreciates free turns to set up Trick Room. Hence, dual screens or Encore support, from the likes of Gardevoir and Liepard, respectively, is helpful.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Duosion can use a defensive Trick Room set to support its teammates, but dedicated Trick Room teams are usually not effective in NU. Duosion can use Trick while holding a status Orb, but it loses a significant amount of bulk without Eviolite. Energy Ball and Hidden Power Fighting are other options at Duosion's disposal, but they don't provide any additional coverage. Magic Coat is an option to reflect Taunt, status, and entry hazards back at the opponent, but with Magic Guard, Duosion is already immune to residual damage from status moves and would rather set up Calm Mind or Trick Room. Acid Armor can make Duosion very hard to take down on the physical side, but it is gimmicky at best. Duosion can use dual screens, but Gardevoir performs this role better thanks to its higher Speed and access to moves such as Taunt and Memento. Thunder Wave can help cripple fast Pokemon on the opponent's team, but is difficult to fit into Duosion's moveset.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Scraggy is the best counter to Duosion, as it can boost alongside it while taking little damage from any of its attacks, and can retaliate with a super effective Crunch. Dark-types in general are decent checks to Duosion; for example, Skuntank is a big roadblock to both sets, as it is immune to Psychic and can use a combination of Taunt, Sucker Punch, and Pursuit to eliminate Duosion. However, it has to watch out for Hidden Power Ground. Mandibuzz is a full stop to any Duosion that lacks Thunder, while it can use Taunt to prevent Duosion from setting up or using Recover. Mandibuzz can also heal itself with Roost. Shiftry and Cacturne wall any set that lacks Signal Beam, can wear down Duosion with their STAB moves, and can OHKO the offensive Trick Room set with priority Sucker Punch. Bastiodon walls all Duosion that lack Hidden Power Ground, and can erase all of Duosion's boosts by phazing it out with Roar. Special walls, such as Lickilicky and Audino, wall the offensive Trick Room set. Lickilicky also has the edge against Calm Mind Duosion thanks to Dragon Tail. However, any attempts to phaze Duosion are futile if it is the last Pokemon remaining. Liepard is immune to Psychic, can mess up Duosion's setup attempts with Encore, and can proceed to use U-turn to gain momentum or simply defeat Duosion with Pursuit, but it takes a lot of damage from Duosion's coverage moves. Taunt users also foil Duosion's setup or recovery attempts; the previously mentioned Mandibuzz and Skuntank have access to it, while Serperior can use Taunt and subsequently set up Calm Minds of its own. As Duosion relies heavily on Eviolite for its bulk, Knock Off and Trick are good ways to cripple Duosion and make it easy to take down, especially since it almost always has to take a hit due to its abysmal Speed. Bug- and Ghost-type Pokemon have trouble switching in, but can demolish Duosion with a super effective STAB attack if they do manage it. For instance, Pinsir can OHKO Duosion with X-Scissor and get a Moxie boost in the process, while Golurk can defeat Duosion with Shadow Punch. SubDisable Haunter and Drifblim find trouble switching in, but completely wall variants of Duosion that run Signal Beam over Thunder by disabling Psychic. Duosion has a large weakness to U-turn that can be troublesome and give the opponent momentum, and this can be taken advantage of by the likes of Choice Band Primeape and Liepard if they switch in safely. In general, offensive teams give Calm Mind Duosion trouble as they rarely give it opportunities to set up, while bulkier teams have an easier time stopping offensive Trick Room Duosion as Pokemon on these teams can soak up unboosted hits much more easily and can wear down Duosion with status.</p>
