[Overview]

<p>Farfetch'd has terrible stats, a shallow movepool, and is completely outclassed by every other Normal / Flying type in the tier. Do not even bother trying Farfetch'd out, as it will disappoint you every time.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance "Sweeper"
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Brave Bird
move 3: Leaf Blade
move 4: Quick Attack
item: Life Orb
ability: Defiant
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the best set Farfetch'd can run, which admittedly isn't that impressive. Swords Dance patches up Farfetch'd's Attack stat, but yet might find a bit of trouble setting up due to its frailty. Brave Bird is Farfetch'd's main STAB move, and, unlike Return, can OHKO Ludicolo on the switch even when unboosted. Leaf Blade allows Farfetch'd to get past Rock-types, thus giving it a niche over other Normal- and Flying-types; it is extremely weak without a boost, though. For example, even with Stealth Rock support, an unboosted Leaf blade cannot OHKO Carracosta and Golem. Finally, Quick Attack allows Farfetch'd to pick off weakened opponents and gets around its low Speed. However, Quick Attack is otherwise extremely weak and will fail to do anything of note against bulkier opponents.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An Adamant nature is used because Farfetch'd needs all the power it can get. A Jolly nature allows Farfetch'd to outspeed Modest Ludicolo and Samurott, but Farfetch'd is extremely pathetic offensively without an Adamant nature. U-turn is an interesting move option, allowing Farfetch'd to flee from opponents and gain momentum for the team. Farfetch'd absolutely needs entry hazard support because its pathetic offenses mean it falls short on several KOs without it. For instance, Farfetch'd cannot OHKO Golem 100% of the time unless Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes is on the opponent's side of the field. Probopass is a decent teammate as it provides Stealth Rock support, provides a slow Volt Switch to bring in Farfetch'd safely, and traps and defeats Steel-type opponents for it. Roselia covers up on Farfetch'd's weakness to Electric-type moves and sets up Spikes to aid it. Rapid Spin support from Wartortle and Torkoal is beneficial to allow Farfetch'd to switch in more times and thus possibly survive weaker hits. Mold Breaker Sawk blasts through Steel-types and defeats opposing Stealth Rock leads that possess the Sturdy ability. Due to Farfetch'd's pitiful bulk, it appreciates support to allow itself to set up more easily. Dual screens and Encore support are useful to help it out. Ampharos is a good teammate, taking Electric-type attacks aimed at Farfetch'd, setting up dual screens, and utilizing a slow Volt Switch to bring it in safely.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Baton Pass is a decent move to allow Farfetch'd to escape to a teammate, possibly with a Swords Dance boost, but it cannot be used with Leaf Blade, Quick Attack, or Defiant. Stick is an item to be considered so that Farfetch'd can possibly dish out multiple critical hits, but it is reliant on luck and lacks power without a critical hit. Revenge is an interesting option to hit Steel-types, but the negative priority means that Farfetch'd is likely to be KOed before it even gets to move. Agility patches up Farfetch'd's poor Speed, but without a boost from Swords Dance, it is extremely weak and it is too frail to be setting up both Swords Dance and Agility in the same match, making this move largely useless. Toxic is a decent option that allows Farfetch'd to cripple bulkier opponents, but Farfetch'd isn't going to last long enough to stall opponents out. Finally, a much easier and more effective alternative is to use another Normal / Flying type, such as Swellow or Braviary; at least they can get off one or two KOs per game.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Steel-types are resistant to every move Farfetch'd normally uses and easily KO it. Klang in particular can set up Gear Grind while Farfetch'd Swords Dances and OHKO with Shift Gear. Regirock shrugs off everything in Farfetch'd's arsenal and easily OHKOes with Stone Edge. Rotom-S is bulky enough to shrug off unboosted hits, doesn't take too much damage from a +2 Quick Attack, outspeeds, and OHKOes. Because Farfetch'd is so weak, anything reasonably bulky can easily take hits from it and KO it back. Similarly, due to Farfetch'd's poor bulk and Speed, anything that is faster than it that doesn't take too much damage from Quick Attack can easily defeat it by coming in on Swords Dance. In other words, Farfetch'd is countered by the majority of the metagame.</p>