[Overview]

<p>Girafarig is a bit of a one-trick pony&mdash;while its two heads and extremely generous movepool might suggest otherwise, it cannot perform most roles without being outclassed. However, a unique Psychic / Normal typing, two immunities in Ghost and Grass (the latter being courtesy of its ability, Sap Sipper), and access to Calm Mind let it act as a decent Baton Passer. Even so, Girafarig's mediocre offensive stats and poor defenses means that you are often better off using one of the many other offensive Psychic-types in NU, such as Musharna and Gardevoir.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Psychic
move 4: Hyper Voice / Thunderbolt
item: Leftovers
ability: Sap Sipper
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set lets Girafarig differentiate itself from other Psychic-types with its immunities and secondary Normal-type STAB. Baton Pass is the main move on the set and lets Girafarig pass its Calm Mind boosts; it can also be used for dry passing, which lets Girafarig ease prediction as well as escape Pursuit. The Special Defense boosts granted by Calm Mind allow Girafarig to set up on weak special attackers and pass these boosts to teammates. Calm Mind also means that Girafarig can take on the role of a sweeper in a last-Pokemon situation or if said teammate cannot switch in safely. Psychic is an obligatory STAB move and hits common Pokemon such as Sawk, Gurdurr, and Roselia hard. Hyper Voice is the move of choice in the fourth slot as it provides good coverage alongside Psychic, hitting the Dark- and Psychic-types that easily shrug off a Psychic. It should be noted, however, that the combination of the previously mentioned STAB moves is resisted by Steel-types, so Thunderbolt is a viable option to hit them hard. Mandibuzz is also a very important target that Thunderbolt hits, as specially defensive variants are 2HKOed after Stealth Rock while physically defensive variants are 2HKOed with no prior damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A spread of 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe is viable as it lets Girafarig take on a more primary Baton Passing role. A Substitute + Calm Mind set is usable with Baton Pass, Hyper Voice, and maximum HP investment; keep in mind, however, that Ghost-types will beat this set. Grass Knot is an interesting option to hit Seismitoad and Golem, as is Hidden Power Ground to hit Probopass, Bastiodon, and Skuntank, but both are relatively weak against other threats. Golem partners well with Girafarig, as it can deal with Skuntank and Steel-types that are troublesome for Girafarig to handle. In addition, it can lure in Grass-type attacks from various threats, which lets Girafarig set up on said threats. Pokemon that can take advantage of Calm Mind boosts are great partners; Charizard is an excellent example. Wish support from the likes of Alomomola and Lickilicky is valuable to Girafarig so that it can set up on threats even after it has taken damage after Baton Passing once. Substitute can be used over Calm Mind but Sawsbuck is usually better when it comes to SubPass.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A dual screens set might seem like a good option, but Gardevoir is infinitely better for this role for various reasons. However, if a Grass immunity is needed, Girafarig is a decent user of them. Physical sets are usable but Miltank is generally better as a physical Normal-type attacker. Girafarig has a secondary STAB move in Zen Headbutt as well as access to moves such as Earthquake and Crunch that differentiates it in this role from Miltank, however. Choiced Girafarig sets might seem like good options, but again, Gardevoir is better for this role. Girafarig can run a support role due to its access to moves such as Magic Coat, Whirlwind, Taunt, and Thunder Wave, but it is way too frail to run such a set. Girafarig could try running other variants of Baton Pass sets with moves such as Work Up and Charge Beam. On a similar note, a more defensive Baton Pass set with Substitute / Amnesia / Baton Pass / Foul Play takes lets Girafarig Baton Pass more reliably, but defensive boosts don't accomplish much by themselves. Shadow Ball hits Psychic-types but Girafarig is hard-pressed for moveslots.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Even though Girafarig is seemingly easy to counter, Baton Pass means that it won't be staying in on said counter most of the time and will swap out to an appropriate switch-in for it. Steel-types such as Bastiodon, Probopass, and Metang are excellent counters to Girafarig; Bastiodon is particularly effective due to Roar. Pursuit trappers such as pivot Liepard are immune to its Psychic STAB and can trap it; this fact is further augmented by Liepard's access to Encore, which lets it lock Girafarig into Calm Mind. Skuntank is a seemingly excellent counter, but it is outsped by Girafarig, which can simply Baton Pass and escape Skuntank's Pursuit. Perish Song Misdreavus can stop Girafarig's sweep in its tracks even if it chooses to Baton Pass to a teammate. Taunt users such as Serperior and Mandibuzz are great counters to Girafarig, although the latter is 2HKOed by Thunderbolt. Users of phazing moves can deal with Girafarig by wiping away its Calm Mind boosts. Physical attackers that outspeed Girafarig, such as Sawsbuck, can KO it before it can Baton Pass out to a teammate or utilize the Calm Mind boosts itself.</p>
