[Overview]

<p>Lampent struggles to find much use, but it has a specific niche. Lampent can set and utilize Trick Room with an offensive set better than the majority of other Trick Room setters. It has a good offensive typing and coverage, alongside several useful resistances that let it set up Trick Room despite its relatively poor bulk. It also has access to two good abilities in Flash Fire and Flame Body. Flash Fire powers up its own Fire-type moves whenever Lampent is hit by one, and Flame Body can be useful for getting a surprise burn on an opponent. However, Lampent's typing also gives it some common weaknesses, including weaknesses to Rock-, Dark-, and Water-type attacks, which opens it up to a lot of damage from several moves, notably Stealth Rock, Pursuit, and Sucker Punch. Charizard gives Lampent a lot of competition as an offensive Fire-type, and Misdreavus similarly gives it competition as a Ghost-type. Trick Room in general isn't a very good strategy, but it is the main thing that makes Lampent worth using.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Energy Ball / Memento
item: Life Orb
ability: Flash Fire / Flame Body
nature: Quiet
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lampent can use its solid amount of resistances and immunities to help itself set up Trick Room and proceed to hit fairly hard. Moreover, due to its low Speed, Lampent moves before a majority of Pokemon under Trick Room, and deals out lots of damage thanks to its relatively high Special Attack and good coverage. Fire Blast is the main STAB move and hurts almost everything that doesn't resist it, and even some Pokemon that do. Shadow Ball is the secondary STAB attack and provides good coverage as well as a more reliable move to use repeatedly because of Fire Blast's accuracy. Energy Ball is the coverage move of choice to hit bulky Water-types such as Seismitoad and Rock-types such as Golem and Regirock. Memento is a useful move to play around counters such as Skuntank, and also supports teammates by helping them set up on a weakened opponent.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the item of choice, as it allows Lampent to achieve key KOs, such as the OHKO against Sawk and Charizard after Stealth Rock with Fire Blast and Shadow Ball, respectively. Flash Fire is useful for getting power boosts to Fire Blast when switching in on an opponent's Fire-type attack. It also lets Lampent set up on Choice Specs Charizard, which is an impressive feat. Flame Body is an alternate option that can punish priority users such as Aqua Jet Samurott, Sucker Punch Skuntank, and Sucker Punch Kangaskhan with a surprise burn. With the exception of Charizard, Fire-types are rare in NU, so Flame Body may be the better choice depending on how your team does against Charizard. Lampent appreciates slow pivots such as Baton Pass Musharna and Volt Switch Probopass as partners so that it can switch in safely without taking a hit. Eelektross is immune to the Ground-type attacks that target Lampent, has a slow Volt Switch, and also benefits from the Trick Room Lampent sets up. Choice Band Sawk and Taunt Samurott are useful partners to help prevent Stealth Rock from going up and also break down walls that trouble Lampent. Roselia has decent synergy with Lampent and can set up Spikes, which are very useful if Lampent wants to attempt a sweep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lampent can hold an Eviolite to increase its bulk, but the power from Life Orb is really needed to achieve those vital KOs. Choice Specs is another item that lets Lampent hit really hard, but being locked into a single move and unable to use Trick Room isn't worth the significant power increase. A Calm Mind set can be used to decent effect. However, Lampent often finds itself lacking the bulk necessary to set up enough Calm Minds to be effective, and its lack of reliable recovery really hurts it. Will-O-Wisp can be used to get a more reliable burn than Flame Body, but the accuracy is still annoying, and Lampent isn't quite bulky enough to be running utility sets. It can run Substitute alongside either Calm Mind or Pain Split which can work to decent effect. Lampent rarely finds opportunities to set up enough, however, so it is better off without setup moves. It can utilize Taunt to shut down a wall, which can be very useful for dealing with some of Lampent's checks and counters. Haze can put a stop to a setup sweeper, but if they've set up too much they will probably OHKO anyway thanks to Lampent's mediocre bulk. Lampent has access to a few other coverage options including Psychic and Dark Pulse, but they don't provide much actual coverage that the three main attacking moves don't already cover.</p>
[Checks and Counters]

<p>Dark-types give Lampent quite a bit of trouble. Skuntank can use Sucker Punch to KO Lampent or predict a switch and go for Pursuit. Mandibuzz is bulky enough to take any hit it wants and simply Roost off the damage while also dealing a lot of damage with Foul Play. Water-types can OHKO Lampent with their STAB moves and are quite a problem, though Energy Ball can be used against them as long as Trick Room is up. Carracosta and Samurott are especially annoying as they have priority Aqua Jet to surpass the Trick Room. Specially defensive Pokemon take hardly any damage from Lampent's attacks and can easily stall out its Life Orb recoil damage. Examples include Audino, Lickilicky, and Probopass. Zweilous gets a special mention as it resists all of Lampent's moves and can easily phaze it out with Dragon Tail or Roar. Sucker Punch users such as Skuntank, Kangaskhan, and Golem can revenge kill Lampent before it can get off an attack. Residual damage, especially from Stealth Rock and Toxic, really stack up on Lampent thanks to its lack of reliable recovery and its already slightly crippling Life Orb recoil. Trick Room can easily be stalled out, which leaves Lampent open to being revenge killed by many Pokemon in the tier.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Lampent gets the almost exclusive Shadow Tag ability from the Dream World, and is one of its best abusers. With it, the rarely seen Calm Mind set becomes its coup de grace, as Lampent will be able to come in on attackers locked into Normal- and Fighting-type attacks and set up as much as it wants with Substitute, Calm Mind, Acid Armor, or even Flame Charge, before sweeping opponents with +6 offenses and defenses. When it is released, Shadow Tag Lampent will significantly change the metagame around it, forcing opponents such as Sawk and Combusken to adapt to survive. That is, if it isn't outright banned from NU.</p>