[Overview]

<p>Lunatone has an interesting typing and a decent ability in Levitate but struggles to carve itself a notable niche in NU. It has low physical bulk, leaving it vulnerable to the Normal- and Flying-types that most other Rock-type Pokemon check with ease and also increasing its weakness to Pursuit trapping. It is mostly outclassed by the likes of Metang, Golem, and even Solrock, as they all beat a greater variety of threats. However, Lunatone distinguishes itself by being one of the best counters to most variants of Charizard, as it can take hits from them and hit back with a super effective STAB attack, while also having access to reliable recovery.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Moonlight
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Toxic / Psychic
item: Leftovers
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Lunatone makes for a decent utility Pokemon. Stealth Rock is obligatory team support and helps to wear down opponents. Moonlight provides reliable recovery, allowing Lunatone to stay healthy when checking Charizard. Hidden Power Rock is Lunatone's most useful attack, defeating Charizard, which cannot hurt Lunatone much. Toxic can be used to hit bulkier opponents and sweepers when Hidden Power Rock does insufficient damage. However, Psychic can be used instead to hit Pokemon that resist Hidden Power Rock, most notably Fighting-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Earth Power can be used for psuedo-EdgeQuake coverage, but it is inferior to Lunatone's other options due to its low damage output. Magic Coat can be used to bounce back Taunt, status moves, and entry hazards. Metang is a solid partner that covers Lunatone's weakness to physical attacks. Metang is able to counter Flying-types for Lunatone and easily switch into opponents that try to hit Lunatone with a Grass-type move. Due to Lunatone's vulnerability to status, cleric support is appreciated. Hence, Audino, Miltank, and Lickilicky are decent choices for partners. Alomomola is a good teammate, as it is able to take physical hits for Lunatone, resists Water-type moves, and can beat several opponents like Samurott that Lunatone struggles with.</p>

[SET]
name: Rock Polish
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Baton Pass / Earth Power
item: Life Orb
nature: Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lunatone can take advantage of its resistances and immunity to Ground-type moves to set up Rock Polish. Lunatone is able to threaten Haunter and Charizard after a Rock Polish, and it can pass its boosts to a teammate once it's done. Rock Polish allows Lunatone to outspeed threats such as Choice Scarf Haunter, Choice Scarf Primeape, and Charizard. Psychic is Lunatone's best special STAB move. Hidden Power Rock is Lunatone's best secondary attack, enabling it to defeat Charizard. Baton Pass allows Lunatone to escape a potential counter and have its teammates continue its sweep for it; meanwhile, Earth Power gives Lunatone a legitimate chance to sweep by allowing it to cover Steel-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs allow Lunatone to outspeed and OHKO +1 base 95 Speed Pokemon, including Choice Scarf Haunter and Choice Scarf Primeape, after a Rock Polish boost. A Modest nature with Life Orb is essential to give Lunatone all the power it can get, while a Timid nature does not let Lunatone outspeed anything very important. Moonlight is an option, but Lunatone is better off attacking every turn or using Baton Pass, and Moonlight is hard to fit into a moveslot. Fighting- or Ground-type teammates, such as Sawk and Golurk, are excellent; they really appreciate the Speed boost from Rock Polish and can demolish Steel-types that try to wall Lunatone. Magnet Pull Probopass is a good teammate as it can defeat Steel-types to clear the path for Lunatone. Regirock is another decent teammate, offering paralysis support to enable Lunatone to attack before boosting as well as giving entry hazard support. Encore or Memento support is appreciated, as they allow Lunatone more setup opportunities. Liepard and Muk are examples of Pokemon capable of providing this.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lunatone can run Trick Room, but it is unable to utilize it effectively and the move is used better by other Pokemon such as Musharna and Beheeyem. Lunatone can run a decent dual screens support set, but it is outclassed by Gardevoir and Solrock. Lunatone can try to become a boosting sweeper with Calm Mind, but its lack of physical bulk and vulnerability to status makes this a poor choice. Hypnosis is an option, but it has shaky accuracy and takes up a moveslot that can be used better. Ice Beam and Signal Beam can be considered to keep Grass-types away, but they provide no additional coverage. Similarly, Grass Knot can be used to hit Water-types, and Shadow Ball can hit Ghost-types, but they are useless otherwise and Lunatone's low Speed means it has to predict these Pokemon switching in anyway. Pain Split can be used for healing while wearing down the opponent, but it is completely inferior to the more reliable Moonlight. Cosmic Power can be used to boost both of Lunatone's defenses, but it does not make Lunatone any less passive than it already is. Finally, a full Baton Pass set can be used, with interesting boosts to pass such as Cosmic Power and Rock Polish, but it is outclassed by other Pokemon such as Ninjask and Musharna.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Lunatone is physically frail, meaning that most neutral physical hits can defeat or at least dent it. Lunatone's typing also means it has very exploitable weaknesses. Skuntank and Liepard are good counters, with the former being immune to Toxic and both being able to switch into most of Lunatone's moves. Skuntank can then proceed to Taunt, Sucker Punch, or Pursuit Lunatone, while Liepard can use either Pursuit, U-turn, Sucker Punch, or Encore to cripple it. Swords Dance Samurott, particularly variants with Lum Berry, can set up on Lunatone before OHKOing it with Aqua Jet to get around Rock Polish. If Lunatone is running Toxic over Psychic, Fighting-types are capable of destroying the utility set. Sawk and Primeape can hit Lunatone with a super effective Earthquake and U-turn respectively, while Throh sets up on Lunatone, getting an Attack boost from Guts if it is hit by Toxic. Steel-types wall Lunatone if it lacks Earth Power as it has no way to break through them. Bastiodon and Metang can switch into Lunatone, set up Stealth Rock, and get rid of any possible Rock Polish boosts by phazing it out with Roar in Bastiodon's case or KOing it with Meteor Mash in Metang's. Meanwhile, Klang can freely set up on Lunatone before OHKOing with Gear Grind. The best way to defeat Rock Polish Lunatone is to hit it before it sets up and passes its boosts to a teammate or attacks by itself.</p>