[Overview]

<p>As the fastest Stealth Rock setter in the NU tier, Miltank has a claim to fame as a support Pokemon. With a variety of utility moves such as Heal Bell under its belt, as well as a reliable recovery move in Milk Drink, Miltank can easily cater to your team's needs. Alongside Miltank's decent mixed bulk, it has two effective abilities that aid its defensive prowess in Thick Fat and Sap Sipper. Offensively, Miltank can work as a decent late-game sweeper with a Curse set alongside Scrappy. It's not always easy for Miltank to be effective though, due to the prevalence of Fighting-type Pokemon in the metagame. Miltank has a difficult time getting past Ghost-types, especially Misdreavus, without Scrappy. It also has difficulty fitting coverage moves into its already limited moveslots; Milk Drink is an automatic requirement, which leaves Miltank with only three moveslots. While its Normal typing leaves a lot to be desired, its three abilities all provide unique niches that makes Miltank one of the more unpredictable Pokemon in the NU tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Mootility
move 1: Milk Drink
move 2: Stealth Rock
move 3: Heal Bell / Toxic
move 4: Body Slam / Return
item: Leftovers
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With an assortment of support and utility moves, great overall bulk, reliable recovery, and two abilities that enhance its defensive capabilities, Miltank makes a fabulous support Pokemon. Milk Drink is vital for Miltank's longevity, as it allows Miltank to continuously support your team throughout the battle. Stealth Rock provides excellent support for most teams, and Miltank happens to be one of the fastest users even without Speed investment. The third moveslot decides what kind of utility Miltank will provide for one's team: Heal Bell is invaluable for most teams to remove crippling status afflictions, while Toxic works to wear down defensive Pokemon like Alomomola and Misdreavus to allow teammates to break through them more easily. An offensive move is critical to prevent Miltank from being completely destroyed by Taunt and Substitute users. Body Slam is the preferred move as the paralysis chance allows Miltank to possibly cripple offensive Pokemon more effectively than with Toxic. Return can be used instead if you do not like the paralysis chance clashing with Miltank's ability to Toxic defensive Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Max HP and Special Defense EV investment and a Careful nature are recommended as Miltank's Special Defense is rather mediocre and it needs all it can get in special bulk to make the most use of its resistances from Thick Fat. Thick Fat is the preferred ability to grant Miltank invaluable resistances to Fire- and Ice-type moves. Factoring in the gradual recovery from Leftovers, Miltank checks Charizard as even a Blaze-boosted Fire Blast from the Choice Specs set cannot 2HKO Miltank; be wary around Charizard regardless, as Focus Blast from just the Choice Scarf set 2HKOes. Sap Sipper can also be used, as Miltank becomes a great pivot into the Grass-types that are rather common, while Charizard is likely to be the only Fire-type you'll commonly face; the Attack boost is also appreciated to give Body Slam and Return more force. Thunder Wave is a good option for the utility slot if Miltank uses Return, but the paralysis chance from Body Slam usually suffices and Toxic is generally the better status to have, as it gives Miltank the ability to threaten both defensive and offensive Pokemon alike. Seismic Toss is an alternative attacking move Miltank can use for consistent damage, though Body Slam's paralysis chance and Return's better power against offensive Pokemon make them more useful overall.</p>

<p>Choice Band Golurk is an excellent teammate, being able to break past Rock- and Steel-types and sponge Fighting-type moves for Miltank; in exchange Miltank provides Stealth Rock and paralysis support to give Golurk an easier time breaking down the opposing team. Other Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus and Haunter, can also take on Fighting-types while acting as spinblockers to keep Stealth Rock around. Musharna also provides a valuable defense against Fighting-types, and can provide the utility that Miltank forgoes with either its own Thunder Wave or Heal Bell. Garbodor can also check Fighting-types, and it even provides Spikes and Toxic Spikes support to compliment Stealth Rock. For more offensive teammates, Grass-type sweepers, such as Substitute and Calm Mind Serperior and Rain Dance Ludicolo, appreciate Miltank's ability to wear down Charizard, Regice, and special walls so that they can sweep more effectively.</p>

[SET]
name: Moodoo
move 1: Curse
move 2: Body Slam / Return
move 3: Milk Drink
move 4: Heal Bell
item: Leftovers
ability: Scrappy
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set makes use of Scrappy to allow Miltank to hit every Pokemon in the tier with its STAB move, a perfect compliment to a mono-attacking setup sweeper. Curse is the key to this set, bringing Miltank's physical bulk to impressive levels. The Attack boost is also appreciated, making Body Slam and Return considerably more threatening. Return has more power, but Body Slam is still preferred as the paralysis chance gives Miltank more opportunities to set up; Body Slam is also a decent move to use early-game when Miltank cannot safely set up to fish for paralysis. Miltank will likely have to withstand several attacks in order to set up, so Milk Drink is a requirement to keep it healthy. Heal Bell prevents Miltank from becoming crippled by Toxic and Will-O-Wisp and allows Miltank to support its team despite its focus being primarily on sweeping. Milk Drink and Heal Bell both differentiate Miltank from other bulky setup sweepers, such as Bulk Up Gurdurr, which lacks reliable recovery and Heal Bell, and Bulk Up Braviary, which relies on Substitute to block status.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As Curse boosts Miltank's Defense, this set most benefits from investing entirely in HP and Special Defense. A Careful nature compliments the special bulk investment, and Leftovers is the preferred item so that Miltank does not have to use Milk Drink as often. Thick Fat is a possible option for this set so that Miltank can set up on Fire- and Ice-type Pokemon, but this set is then walled by Ghost-types. Earthquake is an option over Heal Bell for a more offensive approach, but status becomes crippling for Miltank. This set greatly appreciates Toxic Spikes support from teammates such as Garbodor and Roselia in order to wear down opposing walls and setup sweepers and deter them from staying in. Garbodor is particularly useful in order to check opposing Fighting-types that can break through Miltank even after a Curse.</p> 

<p>This set is walled by Mandibuzz, which either breaks it down with Taunt and Toxic or simply blows Miltank out of battle with Whirlwind. This means that Pokemon that can defeat Mandibuzz, such as Eelektross, the Rotom formes, special Samurott, or other strong special attacking Pokemon are required teammates. Additional bulky sweepers, such as Calm Mind Musharna and Bulk Up Gurdurr, partner well with this Miltank set as they help wear down each other's counters.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>An offensive set with Life Orb and Sap Sipper, possibly even Scrappy, is a viable option for Miltank; the recommended moves would be Double-Edge, Milk Drink, Earthquake, and a choice of Ice Punch, Punishment, or Heal Bell. Just understand that such a set compromises Miltank's good bulk; an additional drawback is that Miltank's power is still mediocre and it requires a boost from Sap Sipper to significantly threaten the opposing team. Hammer Arm and Gyro Ball can be utilized on the Curse set as Speed isn't very relevant on the set, but they are mediocre options for the most part when compared to Miltank's Normal STAB moves. Zen Headbutt is a possible move to hit Fighting-types, but it is difficult to fit onto any of Miltank's sets. Fire Punch and ThunderPunch can be used to hit specific Pokemon for 4x damage, but Return and Double-Edge either match or outdamage, respectively, against all other targets that are hit neutrally. In order to hit Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon, Brick Break and Focus Punch are options but they are generally inferior to Earthquake. Rest and Sleep Talk are options over Milk Drink and Heal Bell on the Curse set, but such a set's unreliability and inability to support its team makes it a less practical option. Finally, Miltank can set up both Sunny Day and Rain Dance for weather sweepers; unfortunately, Miltank's inability to provide a safe switch-in for such teammates, lack of priority on such moves, and lack of benefits from weather moves in general makes it an inferior choice compared to Volbeat, Regirock, Liepard, and even the weather sweepers themselves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Gurdurr is the best counter to Miltank as it can use Bulk Up to overpower Miltank while keeping itself healthy with Drain Punch. Throh can also use Bulk Up to absorb Miltank's attacks and can either threaten it with Storm Throw or Circle Throw. Choice Band Sawk can break through Miltank even after a Curse. Misdreavus walls any Miltank that lacks Scrappy, and threatens Scrappy sets with Will-O-Wisp and Taunt. Other Ghost-types, such as Haunter and Golurk, can check non-Scrappy sets as well; they must be wary of the status ailments Miltank can inflict. Mandibuzz can completely wall Miltank with Taunt, Toxic, and Roost; Whirlwind variants can at least prevent Curse sets from setting up too much. Mandibuzz must be wary of Toxic on the switch or, to a lesser extent, paralysis. Alomomola walls the offensive set if it lacks Heal Bell and doesn't already have several boosts; it also walls the utility set if Miltank lacks Toxic. Miltank doesn't have the greatest special bulk, so powerful special attackers, such as Samurott and Gardevoir, can possibly 2HKO it.</p>