[Overview]

<p>With mostly average stats across the board and a horrible defensive typing that gives it a Pursuit weakness, Mr. Mime is a very mediocre Pokemon in the NU metagame. Even though its Special Defense is respectable, most of the time it is outclassed by its competitors; Musharna performs a support role better, while Gardevoir and Kadabra perform an offensive role better. However, its access to Baton Pass and support options such as Nasty Plot and Encore let it carve itself a niche as a Baton Passer. However, keep in mind that for any other purpose you are generally better off using one of the other Psychic-types in the tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Nasty Plot
move 3: Substitute / Encore
move 4: Psychic
item: Leftovers
ability: Filter
nature: Timid
evs: 144 HP / 112 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a choice of two great abilities along with Baton Pass and a range of boosting moves, Mr. Mime is quite the Baton Passer. Baton Pass is a necessary and obvious move on this set, and Mr. Mime can use it to pass boosts to a teammate, as well as being able to dry-pass to maintain momentum and escape Pursuit from Skuntank, one of the premier users of Pursuit and Taunt in the tier. Keep in mind, however, that Mr. Mime will not be able to escape from pivot Liepard due to priority Encore, letting it trap Mr. Mime with Pursuit if you predict wrongly. Nasty Plot is the boosting option of choice as it allows Mr. Mime to grant an immediate +2 Special Attack boost to something that can make better use of it. Substitute is preferred to avoid status and provide an essentially free switch in for a teammate if Mr. Mime Baton Passes with the Substitute intact. Encore can be used instead to provide setup opportunities for Mr. Mime. In the last slot, Psychic is necessary to prevent Mr. Mime from becoming Taunt bait, as well as to giving Mr. Mime the option to utilize the Nasty Plot boosts itself.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread means that Mr. Mime's Substitutes cannot be broken by support Lickilicky's Dragon Tail or defensive Probopass's Power Gem, letting it set up on these Pokemon with ease. Filter is the ability of choice, as it lets Mr. Mime take super effective moves such as U-turns and Shadow Balls more effectively, the latter being especially important as Mr. Mime can 2HKO defensive Misdreavus with +2 Psychic, while Misdreavus cannot 2HKO back. Soundproof can be used instead to let Mr. Mime ignore Roar and Perish Song, both of which are irritating for a Baton Passer, but it's rather unreliable in terms of effectiveness; while it can indeed set up on some users of these moves, such as Camerupt, Bastiodon, and Eelektross, it also loses to other Pokemon such as Misdeavus, Mandibuzz, and Zweilous. Calm Mind is a fine alternative to Nasty Plot in order to let Mr. Mime set up against special attackers more easily, but Mr. Mime prefers the immediate boost from Nasty Plot most of the time, and is outclassed by Musharna in this role. While Leftovers is typically the best item in order to offset Substitute damage, Salac Berry can be used in conjunction with Substitute to boost Mr. Mime's Speed in a pinch and either Baton Pass to a teammate or sweep on its own. On a similar note, Lum Berry can be used in conjunction with Encore to shrug off status that would otherwise cripple Mr. Mime. </p>

<p>Pokemon that can utilize said Nasty Plot boosts to sweep, such as Charizard and Kadabra, make for great partners. Fighting-type Pokemon also make for good partners, being able to defeat most of the Dark-types that give Mr. Mime trouble. Pokemon such as Ludicolo and Seismitoad can be a threatening force under rain, and even more so after being Baton Passed a Nasty Plot boost, making them excellent partners too. As Mr. Mime can Baton Pass Special Attack boosts to it, Victreebel does not need to waste a slot for Growth, and can afford to run more coverage. It is also a threatening sweeper under harsh sunlight.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A dual screens set along with Encore and Baton Pass can be used to provide utility and preserve momentum. Taunt can prevent status and stop the opponent from using Mr. Mime as setup bait, but both the moves in the third slot of the set can do either, and more besides. Mr. Mime can use its hidden ability, Technician, with moves such as Magical Leaf, Icy Wind, and 60 Base Power Hidden Powers, but as previously mentioned, is typically wasted as an offensive threat. A Choice item can be used in conjunction with Trick, but this deviates from Mr. Mime's niche. Signal Beam, Shadow Ball, Thunderbolt, and Focus Blast are good coverage moves which Mr. Mime can utilize, but it is hard-pressed for moveslots as it is. Confuse Ray, Thunder Wave, and Trick Room are support moves that Mr. Mime can use, but it cannot utilize these moves very efficiently compared to other Pokemon.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt is a great stop to anything Mr. Mime can do if it hasn't already used Nasty Plot. However, if it is at +2 and Taunted, it can still hit the opponent hard with Psychic. As far as Pokemon go, Mandibuzz is a full stop to Mr. Mime, as it can Taunt it, hit it with Foul Play or Brave Bird, and Whirlwind it out to render its boosts useless. Liepard can come in on any move, use Encore on Mr. Mime, and then can Pursuit trap it. Even though Skuntank can Taunt it and trap it with Pursuit, Mr. Mime is faster and can Baton Pass out; however, none of the typical recipients of its boosts like taking a STAB Sucker Punch at all. Metang can easily take even boosted Psychics and can hit it hard with STAB Meteor Mash. Tauros and Swellow can easily hit Mr. Mime hard with their powerful STAB moves; however, keep in mind that if Mr. Mime is behind a Substitute, it can do considerable damage to them on the counter-attack.</p>