[Overview]

<p>As a Water-type Pokemon, Octillery is mostly outclassed by Pokemon such as Gorebyss and Seismitoad, and is therefore very rarely seen in the tier. Fortunately, it does have great offenses backed by a powerful STAB Hydro Pump , meaning that it can do huge damage to most opponents, and a wide coverage movepool, meaning that would-be checks need to think twice before switching in; unlike other Water-types, Octillery can hit Water-, Grass-, and Dragon-types for massive damage with the appropriate coverage move. However, it isn't particularly bulky and its Speed is disappointingly low, meaning it will always have to take a hit before being able to strike back.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Hydro Pump
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Energy Ball
move 4: Fire Blast
item: Choice Specs
ability: Sniper
nature: Modest
evs: 92 HP / 252 SpA / 164 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is, quite simply, Octillery's best set, as Octillery really needs the raw power provided by Choice Specs to break through certain threats. This extra power is especially important for securing the OHKO on Skuntank and Gardevoir after Stealth Rock with Hydro Pump. Hydro Pump is the main move on this set and hits most Pokemon that don't resist it hard. Ice Beam hits Flying- and Dragon-types for good damage while hitting Grass-types accurately. Energy Ball gives important coverage against Seismitoad as well as other Water-types, although Hydro Pump hit many Water-types reasonably hard as well. Fire Blast is on this set to hit important Grass-types such as Ludicolo (it does over 50% damage to Rain Dance variants, which, along with Stealth Rock, is good enough to make sure they don't get a free switch-in).</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Choice Specs is the only option on the main set for the reasons stated above. Life Orb is definitely a good alternative, though, as while it might miss out on the previously mentioned important KOs, it allows Octillery to switch around moves, therefore making better use of its brilliant coverage. Keep in mind that Life Orb is more hazard-reliant, while Choice Specs is more prediction-reliant. The EVs let Octillery outspeed Alomomola, which it can 2HKO with Energy Ball. Although Sniper is the recommended ability, as the results can be devastating for the opponent if the Octillery user gets lucky, Suction Cups is also a choice on Baton Pass teams where Octillery can make use of Speed boosts from the likes of Ninjask and Special Attack boosts from other Baton Passers. A Life Orb or Expert Belt set is more suited to Baton Pass teams, as is Water Spout, which is a great option here to spam when Octillery is at full health. Pokemon that set up entry hazards, such as Golem and Roselia, make for good partners as well. The two also have the added benefit of being able to switch into Electric-type attacks with impunity, but do note that Golem shares a weakness to Grass with Octillery. Roselia is particularly effective, as it can take down the Grass-types that threaten Octillery with their STAB moves as well. Trick Room is great for Octillery, as it can "outspeed" most Pokemon under it and start firing off strong special attacks; for this reason, Duosion and Musharna make for good partners. If Octillery is being used under Trick Room, a Quiet nature along with 0 Speed IVs should be used.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Although Water Spout might seem tempting, Octillery is slow and not really bulky, meaning that it will almost always go last and will quickly reach the point where Hydro Pump deals more damage. Thunder Wave seems appealing to slow down switch-ins and blast them with an appropriate coverage move, but Octillery is rather frail and has a four-moveslot syndrome. Acid Spray lowers the opponent's Special Defense, but Octillery is better off attacking in the meantime. Signal Beam can be used to hit Ludicolo for massive damage on the switch-in, having a small chance to OHKO Rain Dance variants and doing a respectable chunk to specially defensive variants. A physical set consisting of a variety of moves including Waterfall, Seed Bomb, and Rock Blast is a possibility, but not really viable, as said moves are either not very powerful or unreliable.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Most special walls can take on Octillery rather well but must beware of switching directly into Hydro Pump; not much wants to take two Choice Specs-boosted Hydro Pumps. Grass-types can take Octillery on rather easily if they switch into Hydro Pump; Roselia in particular can incapacitate the switch-in with Sleep Powder or set up Spikes as Octillery flees. Both Rain Dance and specially defensive variants of Ludicolo are great checks to Octillery, being able to switch into all of its moves, force it out with Giga Drain, or in the case of the Rain Dance set, even set up Rain Dance while it switches out; keep in mind that Rain Dance variants take upwards of 50% damage from Fire Blast, though. RestTalk Mantine can wall Octillery to hell and back, being only 3HKOed 6.98% of the time by Ice Beam after Stealth Rock&mdash;and that is for physically defensive variants! Water-types such as Alomomola and Seismitoad hate coming in on Energy Ball, but Octillery rarely uses it and is usually Choice-locked into another move, making them reliable as checks. Altaria and Dragonair can wall Octillery that don't run Ice Beam and can come in on any other Choice-locked attack from those that do.</p>

<p>On most teams, checking Octillery offensively is more feasible than trying to wall it. If all else fails, strong attacks such as Choice Band Sawk's Close Combat and Choice Specs Charizard's Hidden Power Grass (after Stealth Rock damage) can easily send the octopus back to the depths of the sea where it came from. Using Grass- and Electric-type STAB moves from the likes of Tangela and Eelektross is an easy way to put a stop to Octillery's antics, as they can easily OHKO it.</p>
