
[Overview]


<p>Raichu will never achieve stardom in NU, but it is still a decent special sweeper with an intriguing niche. It sits at a great Speed tier that allows it to outspeed non-Choice Scarf Haunter and Sawsbuck and tie with Charizard. Encore combined with Nasty Plot means it can force switches, disrupt the opposition, and sweep. Its ability Lightning Rod allows it to nab Special Attack boosts, and Raichu can use that in conjunction with Encore to potentially lock the opposing Pokemon into an Electric-type attack, giving it a further boost, as well as even more opportunities to set up. However, keep in mind that it will be walled depending on its moves and that it is easily revenge killed, so don't expect it to sweep teams consistently.</p>

[SET]
name: Encore + Nasty Plot
move 1: Encore
move 2: Nasty Plot
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Grass Knot
item: Life Orb
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>What separates this set from those of other users of Nasty Plot, such as Shiftry and Simipour, is Encore. If used on a non-damaging move, Encore gives the opponent a choice: stay in, and be forced to repeat the same move,or switch. In either situation, Raichu is able to set up a Nasty Plot. At +2 and factoring in STAB, Thunderbolt will severely maim anything that does not either resist it or have absurdly high Special Defense. In the last slot, Grass Knot is used to hurt NU's many Ground-types, such as Golurk and Piloswine.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In the fourth slot, Hidden Power Ice is a lesser option to hit Grass- and Dragon-types for super effective damage, but it's awfully weak even after a Nasty Plot boost, provides little additional coverage, and many of NU's Ground-types do not take super effective damage from it, notably Seismitoad and Piloswine. Focus Blast can be used to hit many of the bulky Normal-type Pokemon, such as Lickilicky and Audino, but using it means Raichu is totally helpless against Golurk, the most popular Pokemon in the tier, making it an inferior option. A physically offensive Fighting-type such as Choice Band Sawk is a decent partner, as its STAB Close Combat can eliminate the special walls of NU (most are weak to Fighting-type moves). Water-types such as Samurott and Seismitoad are also good partners as the former can lure in Electric-type attacks for Raichu while the latter can set up Stealth Rock for it, and both of them can break through Ground-types easily. Another good partner for Raichu is Charizard; it easily handles the Grass-types that wall Raichu with its STAB moves, as well as being immune to Ground-type moves, while Raichu can gain a Lightningrod boost from Electric-type attacks aimed at Charizard.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Choice Specs and Choice Scarf seem to be good options thanks to Raichu's decent Special Attack and great Speed. However, Choice Scarf loses out on Nasty Plot and Life Orb, thus missing out on a great deal of power, while Choice Specs is largely outclassed by the Encore and Nasty Plot combination. Raichu has an interesting supporting movepool, but due to its frailty, it cannot afford to run Knock Off, Toxic, or Thunder Wave. Volt Switch can be used to good effect in conjunction with Encore, but Raichu would rather use the opportunity to set up and sweep. While ExtremeSpeed and Volt Tackle are two exciting options that you might want to run, they are illegal with each other and specially attacking Raichu is generally better due to access to Nasty Plot and the ability to utilize Lightning Rod. Hidden Power Grass can hit lighter threats for more damage than Grass Knot, but it's generally not worth the loss of power on the heavier threats. Lastly, as tempting as Surf may seem, it is illegal in BW2.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As mentioned before, specially defensive Grass-types, such as Vileplume, Exeggutor, and Roselia, can switch in and either attack or set up hazards. Special walls, such as Bastiodon, Audino, Munchlax, Regice, Lickilicky, and Probopass, can wall Raichu, but must be wary of the rare Focus Blast. Ground-types are generally a safe bet in taking down Raichu, but they must watch out for Grass Knot. Interestingly, Gardevoir can Trace Raichu's Lightningrod ability and gain an Electric immunity, making it a solid check. Finally, physical Choice Scarf users or Pokemon with physical priority, such as Primeape, are able to outspeed Raichu and promptly take it down.</p>
