[Overview]

<p>Raticate suffers from many horrendous flaws, which is why it gets the shaft in favor of other Normal-types such as Zangoose. Due to its mediocre bulk, Raticate is often hard-pressed to find a chance to switch in. While Raticate has an amazing ability in Guts, it is outclassed by nearly every Guts-using Pokemon in the tier, most of whom are either faster, more powerful, or bulkier than Raticate. To make matters worse, Raticate has a barren physical movepool, making it relatively easy to wall.</p>

<p>Despite these flaws, Raticate still has several traits that make it worth using in the NU metagame. Its base 97 Speed is a blessing, as it allows Raticate to outpace common Pokemon such as Sawsbuck and Haunter. Raticate is the only Guts user which has access to Sucker Punch, allowing it to revenge kill Pokemon such as Kadabra, Choice Scarf Haunter, and Choice Scarf Gardevoir. Raticate also has access to both U-turn and Swords Dance, allowing it to function as either a scout or a sweeper. Although Raticate is largely outclassed by Zangoose and Swellow, its higher Speed and lack of a Stealth Rock weakness set it apart from these respective Guts users.</p>

[SET]
name: Guts
move 1: Facade
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Pursuit / Swords Dance
item: Flame Orb / Toxic Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Raticate's decent Attack and unique Speed make it a formidable Guts user. As with several other Guts users, Facade is Raticate's most powerful STAB move, with its whopping 210 Base Power allowing Raticate to break through walls such as Alomomola and Tangela after a Swords Dance boost. Sucker Punch is Raticate's main draw over other Guts users, as it allows Raticate to bypass Choice Scarf users that other Guts users have trouble with. U-turn is used to maintain momentum against counters such as Probopass. Pursuit is the preferred option in the final slot, as it allows Raticate to checkmate Pokemon such as Haunter. However, Swords Dance is an also option, as it is Raticate's only way of boosting its Attack and allows it to clean up against weakened teams. However, Raticate is extremely frail, meaning that it can only set up a Swords Dance if it forces a switch or takes advantage of foes using Protect, such as Alomomola and Lickilicky.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The choice between Flame Orb and Toxic Orb depends on the user. If you would like Raticate to act as a wallbreaker and stay in for longer, then Flame Orb is the better item, as it does not deal as much residual damage over time. However, if you prefer Raticate to act as a scout, switching in and out of the battle with U-turn, then Toxic Orb is the item of choice, as it deals less residual damage than Flame Orb in this situation. Crunch is a very usable option over Sucker Punch, as it allows Raticate to hit much of its Ghost-type prey reliably. However, its lack of priority makes it an inferior option overall. Reversal is an option, being Raticate's best way to hit Rock- and Steel-types. However, its unreliable damage output makes it an inferior option to the moves listed above. Taunt is an option on this set, as it cripples common walls such as Roselia and Probopass, but Raticate is too frail to use it effectively. Raticate can use Protect over either U-turn or Pursuit and Swords Dance to guarantee Guts activation, but it has little use outside of that.</p>

<p>While not needed, dual screens support from Pokemon such as Gardevoir and Serperior can be useful, as it mitigates Raticate's pitiful bulk. Entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Golem, Roselia, and Garbodor is also recommended to increase Raticate's sweeping potential. For example, Pokemon such as Metang and Alomomola are 2HKOed by Facade after Stealth Rock and two layers of Spikes. These hazard setters also have good synergy with Raticate. Garbodor and Roselia offer resistances to Raticate's Fighting-type weakness, and Golem is able to defeat Rock- and Steel-types such as Probopass. Choice Band Sawk is another good partner to remove Rock- and Steel-types from the match.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Raticate can use its alternate ability, Hustle, with a Choice Scarf to become a fast and powerful revenge killer. Unfortunately, Raticate is a rather unreliable revenge killer due to the accuracy-lowering effects of Hustle. Hone Claws can be used in tandem with Hustle to mitigate the accuracy issues, but at this point, you're better off using the Guts set with Swords Dance. Raticate can use Super Fang to halve the opponent's HP, but this is an extremely risky tactic, as nearly any move from the foe will OHKO Raticate. Finally, Raticate has an excellent special movepool, with moves such as Shadow Ball, Charge Beam, Ice Beam, Thunderbolt, and Blizzard, but its mediocre Special Attack makes these moves all but useless.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Rock-types such as Regirock and Golem make excellent counters to Raticate, as apart from the rare Reversal they fear absolutely nothing and can OHKO with Stone Edge. Metang is a great counter, as it can withstand a Swords Dance boosted-Facade and OHKO in return with Meteor Mash. Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Golurk can bypass Sucker Punch with a non-damaging move and stall Raticate out due to its status Orb, but they lose if Raticate is carrying Crunch. Alomomola and Tangela can stall out Raticate if it lacks Swords Dance. Common Pokemon that are able to withstand a Sucker Punch, such as Choice Scarf Primeape and Gurdurr, can easily revenge kill Raticate due to its low defenses. Preventing Raticate from switching in and getting a Guts boost by applying constant offensive pressure is a great way to stop it, as it is extremely weak without the Guts boost. However, this method will fail if Raticate is carrying Protect. Finally, if you lack defensive answers to Raticate, then it is best to capitalize on the fact that Raticate is usually put on a timer due to its status Orb, so packing entry hazards and priority users is a good way to keep it in check.</p>
