[Overview]

<p>Seadra is relatively unimpressive in Neverused, with rather average stats that prevent it from fulfilling a specific role on a team. Seadra has good Special Attack and fair Speed, but low Special Defense and no reliable recovery. Fortunately, it is a NFE Pokemon, which allows it to use Eviolite, raising its Defense to sky high levels. However, Seadra is still outclassed by Alomomola in terms of bulk due to the latter's access to recovery from Leftovers and Regenerator. In addition, it's also lacking in the offensive department when compared to behemoths like Samurott. Its poor Special Defense renders it extremely susceptible to the common Volt Switch as well. Hence, Seadra's only niche is taking advantage of its decent physical bulk and Disable to try to maintain a Substitute and fire off moderately powerful attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: SubDisable
move 1: Disable
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Hydro Pump / Scald
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Eviolite
ability: Poison Point
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe


[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Disable is Seadra's main niche, and Seadra has the power and Speed to pull off a SubDisable set. Switch into a Pokemon that Seadra forces out, set up a Substitute, and use Disable to play around the opponent's next switch-in. Seadra is very bulky on the physical side, allowing it to take hits from physical attackers, disable their main STAB move, and force them to use a weaker move that does not threaten it. Walls and bulky opponents fall to Seadra once their main attack is disabled, as their other moves usually lack the firepower to break its Substitutes. Disable can also prevent the opponent's wall from stalling Seadra out with recovery moves, as it isn't the strongest Pokemon and will most likely fail to 2HKO most of them.</p>

<p>Hydro Pump is a powerful STAB attack that can easily dent an opponent or force it out, but Scald is a more reliable option. Scald is able to cripple physical offensive opponents with burns so that they will have even more trouble breaking Substitutes. It is also useful for wearing down bulkier offensive Pokemon such as Samurott, Ludicolo, and Gardevoir. Finally, Ice Beam is great for coverage against Grass- and Dragon-types, and has a decent Base Power.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Poison Point is the better overall ability to wear down walls and physical attackers through the potential poison damage. Signal Beam can be used in place of Ice Beam to deal more damage to Exeggutor and Ludicolo. However, Ice Beam is preferred thanks to its higher Base Power and ability to hit Dragon-types super effectively. Surf can be used as it is more powerful than Scald, and has superior accuracy compared to Hydro Pump. A Disable + 3 attacks set can be used if the user prefers a more offensive set. However, Substitute is preferred thanks to its ability to block stray hits, stop status effects, and ease prediction. Hidden Power Grass can be used for coverage if you opt for a more offensive route.</p>

<p>Good teammates for Seadra are those that can set up entry hazards to inflict more residual damage onto opponents, taking advantage of its ability to force switches with Substitute and Disable. Seadra needs Toxic Spikes to break through most walls, as Seadra can fail to break through some opponents. Roselia and Garbodor are great Spikes and Toxic Spikes users to support Seadra. They resist the Grass-type attacks that Seadra dislikes, can force Grass-types out, and absorb Toxic Spikes, which can cripple Seadra. Ground-types such as Golem are immune to Electric-type attacks which threaten Seadra and can help set up Stealth Rock for the team. Meanwhile, Seadra can take the Water-type attacks aimed at them. Clerics such as Audino are also recommended as teammates, as Seadra absolutely hates any form of status due to its lack of reliable recovery and reliance on its Speed, bulk, and HP to make Substitutes.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Protect and Disable set is a great alternative that doesn't force Seadra to lose 25% of its health every other turn. However, this set can leave Seadra vulnerable to status effects and surprise switches, so it's more difficult to utilize. A tank set might look good at first glance but Seadra is outclassed by Alomomola in this regard as the latter has access to recovery moves, Leftovers recovery, and Regenerator. Sniper can be used if you have a team that focuses on other status effects that Poison Point interferes with. A set that does not use Disable is not recommended, as Disable is one of Seadra's niche moves and sets it apart from other Water-types in the tier such as Simipour and Samurott. Clear Smog is a viable option to remove an opponent's stat boosts, but this job is better relegated to other teammates.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Water-types are the first and foremost checks to Seadra, as it only has the weak Hidden Power Grass to hurt them. Grass-types are also threats, with Ludicolo and Roselia worthy of mention as they can switch into Ice Beam as well. Regice and Lapras pack Electric-type attacks and counter Seadra as well. Although Electric-types hate switching into Scald, those that have Volt Switch can harass Seadra, as Volt Switch can break Seadra's Substitute and switch out the attacker, preventing them from being Disabled. Special walls and tanks can stomach Seadra's attacks, but they can't do much back if their offensive move is Disabled (though Pokemon that use Protect can force mind games). Taunt users can prevent Seadra from executing its niche by blocking Substitute and Disable, and proceed to take Seadra down. Good examples include Samurott and Frillish which can take any attack that Seadra dishes out. Phazers and Encorers are more effective in shutting Seadra down than Taunters are. Grumpig and Munchlax are the best answers to Seadra, though Mandibuzz can take a hit in a pinch, while Encore users are more prominent, with Liepard, Volbeat, and Kadabra all fast enough to lock Seadra into Disable or Substitute before it can attack.</p>