[Overview]

<p>With pitiful defenses and lackluster Speed, Seviper struggles to find a spot on teams. Its Poison typing is helpful, as it can absorb Toxic Spikes and check weaker attackers such as Serperior and Gurdurr, but any stronger attacks can land a devastating blow, even if resisted. The best chance Seviper has to pull its weight is to make use of its decent attacking stats and coverage in a mixed set.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Sludge Bomb
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Giga Drain
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Life Orb
nature: Naive
ability: Shed Skin
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Seviper's greatest advantage is its coverage, which allows it to hit a lot of NU super effectively. Sludge Bomb is its STAB move and most reliable attacking choice. Flamethrower hits the Steel-types that will switch in on a predicted Sludge Bomb very hard. Giga Drain rounds off Seviper's coverage by nailing Ground-types that resist both Sludge Bomb and Flamethrower, such as Seismitoad and Golem, for 4x damage and also grants Seviper recovery in the process. Sucker Punch is important in the last moveslot because it allows Seviper to damage faster threats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Seviper uses maximum Speed and a Naive nature so it can outspeed Modest Samurott and Modest Ludicolo, which is an important benchmark. Shed Skin is the ability of choice because it makes Seviper reasonably good at switching in status attacks, and as such grants Seviper more Pokemon to switch in on, such as Misdreavus and Tangela. Life Orb is the best item because Seviper needs a high damage output in order to make an impact; it cannot survive many hits anyway, so the residual damage is insignificant. Nevertheless, an Expert Belt can be used instead of a Life Orb, but Seviper's main STAB will rarely receive a boost in this case, owing to Poison's sparse super effective coverage. A cool alternative over Flamethrower is Hidden Power Ground, which turns Seviper into an effective Probopass and Bastiodon lure, since both of them sponge its attacks otherwise. Good defensive partners for Seviper are Musharna and Mandibuzz, which can handle the incoming Ground- and Psychic-type attacks, as well as most of the stronger attacks that tend to break through Seviper. Good offensive partners are stallbreakers, such as Choice Band Sawk and Swords Dance Samurott, which can handle special walls that can take all of Seviper's attacks. Lastly, paralysis support from Pokemon such as Regirock and Rotom-S greatly helps Seviper by allowing it to outspeed and severely damage Pokemon that it wouldn't normally be able to.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Choice item + Switcheroo is a decent option for Seviper, but Pokemon such as Musharna pull it off better with its higher bulk. Giving Seviper Choice Specs also turns it into a powerhouse, but it doesn't enjoy locking itself into its STAB move and it can easily be revenge killed. A Coil set with Poison Jab, Seed Bomb, Earthquake, Crunch, and/or Aqua Tail is doable, but Arbok outclasses it in Speed, bulk, and its access to Gunk Shot. Seviper has access to some nifty support moves, such as Glare, Dragon Tail, Haze, Taunt, and Knock Off, but it has trouble fitting any of those moves into a set. Seviper can set up weather, but it is completely outclassed by Pokemon with better abilities, Speed, and/or reliable recovery. Seviper could use Rest in conjunction with Shed Skin for its own recovery, but most attacks will at least 2HKO it, so there is little chance of it being effective.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Anything faster with a strong attack that does not fear Sucker Punch can eliminate Seviper, such as Sawk, Tauros, Timid Ludicolo, and Charizard, but they all must avoid switching in on a strong attack. Special sponges such as Lickilicky and Audino can take all of Seviper's attacks with little to fear. Musharna can easily KO Seviper with Psychic and will not take too much damage from Sucker Punch. Ground-types that outspeed or take little damage from Giga Drain, such as Camerupt, are great counters as well. Probopass and Bastiodon also take very little from Seviper's attacks and can set up Stealth Rock and/or phaze Seviper out. Entry hazards in general are great at wearing Seviper down, as it has no reliable recovery.</p>