[Overview]

<p>Stantler is rather mediocre in NU. It is outclassed by Kangaskhan and Tauros, both of which are speedier, are more powerful, and have better abilities. The only thing Stantler has over other Normal-types is its access to the combination of Intimidate and Sucker Punch, which allows it to take a few physical hits and support the team by weakening the opponent, and gives it a decent priority move to defeat faster threats such as Kadabra. However, because this niche is extremely specific, it is generally more beneficial to use other Normal-types instead.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Double-Edge
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Toxic
item: Life Orb
ability: Intimidate
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spd

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Double-Edge is Stantler's most powerful STAB move and is needed to hit opponents as hard as possible. However, it should be noted that the combination of Double-Edge and Life Orb recoil will kill Stantler very quickly. Sucker Punch allows Stantler to hit faster threats such as Kadabra and Gardevoir, as well as finish off faster threats that are sufficiently weakened. Earthquake is a coverage move for hitting Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon. Finally, Toxic is mostly a filler move, but its utility lies in allowing Stantler to cripple physical walls such as Misdreavus and Alomomola.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature allows Stantler to outrun positive-natured base 80 Pokemon, such as Braviary and Gardevoir, as well as Adamant Sawk. However, an Adamant nature is also viable, as it guarantees that Stantler 2HKOes Metang with Earthquake. Intimidate is the chosen ability because it allows Stantler to survive a few weaker hits. It also allows Stantler to act as a pivot against weaker opponents, although it is still extremely frail. Sap Sipper isn't used because it leaves Stantler entirely outclassed by Sawsbuck and it is illegal with Double-Edge and Sucker Punch, which are both very important parts of Stantler's moveset. Double-Edge is the only viable STAB move because Stantler cannot do enough damage with Return; for example, it cannot 2HKO Miltank without Double-Edge. Life Orb helps Stantler nab several important KOs, such as the 2HKO against Metang. Gothorita is an excellent teammate, as it can trap and eliminate physical walls such as Regirock and Alomomola, allowing Stantler to sweep. Skuntank and Liepard are also good teammates for Pursuit trapping opposing defensive Ghost-types, especially Misdreavus, which are troublesome to Stantler. Entry hazard support is also beneficial for Stantler to enable it to grab a few extra KOs. For example, a layer of Spikes is needed to 2HKO physically defensive Seismitoad. Garbodor is a decent Spikes user that also covers up Stantler's weakness to Fighting-type moves, and it is especially useful for dealing with the troublesome Primeape. Roselia is also a decent Spikes user and defeats both Alomomola and Tangela, which are rather troublesome to Stantler. Both of these previously mentioned Spikes users can also set up Toxic Spikes, which helps wear down Alomomola and Tangela. Finally, Seismitoad is also a good partner, as it can set up Stealth Rock and help Stantler defeat Regirock.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A mixed set with Thunderbolt sounds like a decent option to lure in and defeat Alomomola, but in reality, it is very weak and deals only about 50% to its main target, which can be easily recovered through Regenerator, meaning this lure is useless. Work Up and Calm Mind can be used on mixed sets, but using Work Up usually means that physical walls are more wary of switching in. Substitute can be used to shield Stantler from faster threats, but the recoil from Substitute, Life Orb, and Double-Edge recoil adds up very quickly. Jump Kick is an option to hit Bronzor and Cradily, both of which otherwise wall Stantler. Megahorn can also be used, but it doesn't do a lot of damage to Tangela, and Exeggutor is 2HKOed by Double-Edge anyway. Thunder Wave and Hypnosis are decent supporting options in Stantler's movepool, but Stantler's bulk is a little too low to use these options effectively. Energy Ball is a decent option to defeat Seismitoad, but it doesn't really hit anything else. Stantler has access to dual screens, but apart from its access to Intimidate, this set is rather outclassed by the likes of Serperior, Gardevoir, and Ampharos. Choice Band is a decent option, but it doesn't utilize Sucker Punch effectively and is done better by Kangaskhan. Choice Scarf is not a good option either, as it fails to reach the base 95 Speed benchmark and is terribly outclassed by Tauros.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Misdreavus is one of the best counters to Stantler, as it is immune to Stantler's STAB move and can avoid Sucker Punch by burning it with Will-O-Wisp, crippling it for the rest of the match. Physical walls do a great job at countering Stantler, as it can barely scratch them. Regirock, Alomomola, and Tangela are all examples of physical walls that have no trouble with Stantler. These physical walls can proceed to wear down Stantler with status or a STAB move. Golbat and Weezing are solid checks to Stantler, as they are immune to Toxic and are relatively bulky, but they must remain healthy in order to stomach Double-Edge. Bulky Fighting-types, such as Gurdurr and Throh, take little damage from Stantler's moves and can retaliate with Drain Punch and Circle Throw, respectively. Defensive Carracosta walls Stantler thanks to Solid Rock and can wear it down with repeated Waterfalls. Braviary is a decent Pokemon that discourages Stantler from switching in in the first place, because if it does, Braviary gets a free Attack boost thanks to Defiant. Finally, faster Pokemon, such as Choice Scarf Braviary and Choice Band Primeape, can easily revenge kill Stantler due to its frailty. However, the frailer ones need to beware of being hit by Sucker Punch.</p>