[Overview]

<p>While Stunfisk is probably the cutest Pokemon ever created, it also has a great typing which gives it some interesting resistances, including Flying- and Rock-type attacks. Stunfisk is also surprisingly bulky, which makes it one of the few Pokemon in NU that can beat Flying-types by itself without being a Rock- or Steel-type. Stunfisk's ability, Static, is excellent to punish physical attackers that try to weaken Stunfisk with U-turn or a strong contact move such as Close Combat or Ice Punch, which makes it an interesting wall. Unfortunately, its typing also leaves Stunfisk vulnerable to common Pokemon such as Samurott, Torterra, Golurk, and Seismitoad, which makes it hard for Stunfisk to stay alive.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Discharge
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
ability: Static
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set makes use of Stunfisk's bulk and typing as a physically defensive wall that can easily beat Flying-types without having to rely on a Rock or Steel typing. Stealth Rock allows Stunfisk to support its teammates with entry hazards. Discharge is used as it allows Stunfisk to spread paralysis and gives it a decent STAB move, while Earth Power is Stunfisk's strongest STAB move that allows it to inflict as much damage as possible against Ground-, Rock-, Electric-, and Steel-types. Finally, Toxic helps Stunfisk cripple troublesome Pokemon such as Audino, Lickilicky, and Alomomola, all of which can easily take a Discharge and recover their health back with Wish.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Stunfisk can also use maximum Special Defense investment to take on Pokemon such as Choice Specs Charizard better if needed. Scald can be used over Toxic if you want Stunfisk to burn a physical attacker, but most of the time Stunfisk will prefer Toxic to cripple as many bulky Pokemon as possible.</p>

<p>Grass-types such as Tangela, Ludicolo, and Roselia pair well with Stunfisk, as they can easily take Grass-, Water-, and Ground-type attacks for it while Stunfisk can easily deal with the Flying-types that threaten them. Flying-types such as Braviary and Swellow are also great partners for Stunfisk, as they are immune to Ground-type attacks and can easily deal with the Grass-types that threaten Stunfisk, while Stunfisk is immune to Electric-type attacks and can easily KO Rock- and Steel-types to help Braviary or Swellow sweep later in the game. Finally, Mantine can also be a great partner for Stunfisk, as Mantine has a Water- and Ground-type immunity and can easily deal with the Grass-types that threaten Stunfisk, which can easily take on the opponent's Rock- and Electric-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Stunfisk can use a Choice Specs set with Thunderbolt, Earth Power, Sludge Wave, and Surf, which can hit hard against some of the Pokemon that usually switch into Stunfisk, such as Tangela, Ludicolo, Golurk, and Piloswine, but Stunfisk isn't strong enough to punch holes through teams and is better off as a Stealth Rock setter. Stunfisk can also use Foul Play, which allows it to OHKO Choice Band Golurk and hit other physical attackers harder, or Sludge Wave, which allows Stunfisk to hit Pokemon that take nothing from its STABs harder, such as Tangela and Ludicolo, but Stunfisk needs its four moves to function best. Stunfisk also has access to Pain Split to regain health, but it's not that useful with Stunfisk's high HP. Finally, Stunfisk has access to both Yawn and Thunder Wave, but Stunfisk is better off using Toxic to wear down as many Pokemon as possible and Discharge often takes care of paralysis.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite Stunfisk's surprising bulk, its typing leaves it open to a lot of Pokemon. Grass-types such as Torterra, Roselia, and Serperior can easily take any hit from Stunfisk, outspeed it, and KO with either a STAB Wood Hammer or Giga Drain. Water-types such as Ludicolo, Samurott, and Seismitoad can also easily outspeed Stunfisk or take a hit and retaliate back with their STABs for the KO. Ground-types such as Piloswine, Golem, and Golurk can easily take on Stunfisk too, being immune to its Electric-type attacks and able to KO Stunfisk with their STAB Earthquake. While they don't resist Stunfisk's STABs, Ice-types such as Regice and Glaceon can take everything from Stunfisk and take it out with their STAB Ice Beam. Finally, Stunfisk has no way to regain health outside of Leftovers, which means it can easily get worn down by entry hazards and status during the game.</p>
