[Overview]

<p>Sunflora is a bad Pokemon in NU. It is too slow to sweep even with a Speed boost from Chlorophyll, and to make matters worse, its frailty means it would hardly have a chance to grab a KO without getting KOed first. With other Chlorophyll sweepers in the tier, such as Victreebel and Exeggutor, that are speedier and more powerful than it, Sunflora finds its only niche as a suicide sun setter than can threaten opponents in the process. However, this set is very difficult to pull off and it is advisable to stick to other options instead.</p>

[SET]
name: Suicide Sun
move 1: Sunny Day
move 2: Solar Beam
move 3: Hidden Power Rock / Earth Power
move 4: Endeavor / Encore
item: Focus Sash
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Hasty
evs: 252 SpA / 252 Spe
ivs: 0 HP / 0 Def / 0 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Sunflora can quickly set up weather for sun teams and slightly weaken opponents before getting KOed, possibly allowing a teammate to sweep. Generally, though, Volbeat and Liepard are better options thanks to Prankster, a plethora of utility moves, and the ability to hold a Heat Rock. Sunny Day is a non-negotiable move, as without it, Sunflora has no other niche worth mentioning. SolarBeam is Sunflora's strongest STAB attack in sun. Hidden Power Rock allows Sunflora to dent opposing Charizard and Braviary, while Earth Power allows Sunflora to take down Probopass. Endeavor allows Sunflora to bring down an opponent to 1 HP thanks to Focus Sash. Finally, Encore is an option to lock opponents into harmless moves such as Stealth Rock, Toxic, or Will-O-Wisp, possibly allowing a teammate to switch in for free.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Chlorophyll is the chosen ability because Sunflora is too slow and frail to utilize Solar Power effectively. In addition, Chlorophyll allows Sunflora to outspeed up to base 106 Speed Pokemon, including Electabuzz and Kadabra, thus weakening potentially dangerous opponents. Heat Rock is a possible item, but it is inferior because Sunflora will hardly be surviving attacks to set up sun. Because this set fits sun teams well, teammates that benefit from sun are good. Chlorophyll users such as Shiftry, Exeggutor, Sawsbuck, and Victreebel, as well as Fire-types such as Rapidash and Charizard, are good Pokemon on sun teams. Other Pokemon that can set up sun would be beneficial, as the sun set up by Sunflora will not last long and it eases the pressure off of it to stay alive. Pokemon such as Liepard, Volbeat, Regirock, and Probopass can set up sun and provide other decent support options as well. Because sun teams dislike Stealth Rock, Pokemon that can prevent or remove it are useful teammates. Mold Breaker Sawk and Shell Smash Torkoal are decent options to prevent Stealth Rock; this also allows Sunflora to preserve its Focus Sash.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hidden Power Fire can go over Sunflora's coverage move, as it hits Metang and Roselia and gets a power boost from sun, but it is mostly redundant because Sunflora's teammates can usually beat them just as well. Growth can be used in sun, but Sunflora hardly gets the chance to set it up and it is still revenge killed easily. Substitute + Endeavor with Custap Berry as the item can be an interesting set, but it is inferior because it is much harder to pull off. GrassWhistle sounds like a decent option, but in reality, its accuracy is appalling and Sunflora usually cannot afford to miss due to its frailty. Fully offensive sets are outclassed by Pokemon such as Victreebel, although Solar Power Sunflora in sun is surprisingly powerful; it can even OHKO Musharna with SolarBeam. However, as mentioned before, this usually does not work as Sunflora is extremely slow and frail.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt users, such as Misdreavus, Mandibuzz, and Serperior, can prevent Sunflora from setting up sun. Ghost-types can usually defeat Sunflora as they are immune to Endeavor, although they should watch out for SolarBeam. Although they cannot prevent Sunflora from setting up sun, priority users can defeat Sunflora without giving it time to use Endeavor. Opposing rain teams completely neuter Sunflora as they can cancel out sun, weaken SolarBeam, and Pokemon on these teams can swiftly 2HKO. If Sunflora isn't running Hidden Power Rock, Fire- and Flying-types can easily defeat Sunflora. Meanwhile, Sunflora that do not run Earth Power find themselves walled by Probopass and Bastiodon. Roselia completely walls Sunflora and can either set up Spikes on it or simply 2HKO with Sludge Bomb. Special walls such as Audino and Lickilicky easily soak up hits from Sunflora, but they should watch out for Endeavor. Piloswine can OHKO Sunflora most of the time through Focus Sash thanks to Icicle Spear, and Sunflora cannot do anything back because SolarBeam is ineffective if sun is not up. Liepard can lock Sunflora into Sunny Day with Encore, and U-turn out of the switch-in to gain momentum. Any Choice Scarf user or fast Pokemon above base 106 Speed, such as Choice Scarf Rotom-S and Tauros, can outspeed Sunflora even in sun and 2HKO. Although preventing sun is slightly more difficult, checking Sunflora itself isn't a huge problem because most Pokemon have a good matchup against it. In fact, Sunflora's teammates are usually the more threatening ones, which is why it is better to watch out and prepare for them instead.</p>
