[Overview]

<p>Tangela is a good defensive Pokemon in NU, with Eviolite to bolster its already good defenses, a high Defense stat allowing it to wall most threats, and Regenerator to make up for its lack of Leftovers recovery. A decorated support movepool including Sleep Powder, Leech Seed, Knock Off, and Synthesis allows it to do more than just sit around and tank hits. Tangela also has good Special Attack and access to Sleep Powder, both of which keep it from becoming setup fodder and allow it to run a more offensive set; Sleep Powder also means that threats that would otherwise switch in for free, such as Mandibuzz, can be incapacitated, after which Tangela can switch to an appropriate teammate. However, Tangela's typing tends to hold it back a bit; having weaknesses to common Fire- and Flying-type attacks is a huge downfall and force it to rely on its bulk alone to take on a good number of attackers. Tangela's poor special bulk is a huge problem for it, meaning that most powerful special attackers can destroy it, severely limiting its walling potential. Meanwhile, its good movepool still misses out on some great support moves, such as Will-O-Wisp, Heal Bell, Taunt, and Baton Pass, making Misdreavus and Musharna better alternatives for many teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Giga Drain
move 2: Leech Seed / Synthesis
move 3: Sleep Powder
move 4: Hidden Power Rock / Stun Spore
item: Eviolite
ability: Regenerator
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 136 Def / 124 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Tangela's great physical bulk lets it take on a large number of physically oriented threats such as Kangaskhan and Torterra with ease. Giga Drain is easily Tangela's most important move and provides a strong, consistent STAB move and lets it regain lost health. Leech Seed is the primary option for the second slot and provides Tangela with a form of passive damage, which is especially important against bulkier foes. However, Synthesis is an option as it provides reliable recovery and lets Tangela check physical attackers more consistently while staying in. Sleep Powder lets Tangela incapacitate switch-ins that would otherwise force Tangela out, such as Mandibuzz and Braviary. Hidden Power Rock lets Tangela hit irritating Flying- and Fire-types such as Swellow, Braviary, and Charizard hard, but Stun Spore is a viable option as well and gives Tangela a secondary way to cripple opponents after Sleep Clause has been activated.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread maximizes Tangela's physical bulk while the Special Defense investment allows it to survive Life Orb Ludicolo's Ice Beam after Stealth Rock. More investment in Speed is viable to let Tangela outspeed Alomomola and Golurk, but the defensive investment is invaluable for it, making said Speed investment not worth it most of the time. Hidden Power Ice and Hidden Power Fire are viable options for a Hidden Power type, but Hidden Power Rock generally has better coverage overall. Knock Off lets Tangela be an annoyance to Pokemon that rely on their items to be effective (especially Eviolite users), but the given moves are usually more important. If dealing with Ludicolo isn't important for your team, a spread of 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD should be used. Partners that deal with Substitute + Bulk Up Braviary and Fire-types are appreciated, Regirock being a stellar example. Lickilicky is a great partner for Tangela as it can wall special threats that trouble Tangela, but keep in mind that this core is vulnerable to strong physically based Fire- and Flying-type attackers. Choice Band Golurk can deal with Fire-types and can do a number to the opponent's team with the paralysis support Tangela provides if it chooses to run Stun Spore. Water-types such as Samurott can deal with Fire-types such as Charizard, making them good partners as well.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Leaf Storm
move 2: Sleep Powder
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Giga Drain / Synthesis
item: Eviolite
ability: Regenerator
nature: Modest
evs: 212 HP / 252 SpA / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Tangela is primarily seen as a tank that relies on its Defense to wall various threats, an offensive set is just as viable due to Tangela's great Special Attack. This set lets Tangela hit opponents hard while still being able to deal with physical threats, albeit less effectively due to less investment in physical bulk. Leaf Storm is Tangela's main STAB move and works wonderfully with Regenerator as it will be switching out often. Sleep Powder lets Tangela incapacitate switch-ins and deters its checks and counters from coming in for free against it. Hidden Power Rock hits many important targets such as Braviary and Charizard that would otherwise give this set hell. Giga Drain is the primary option in the fourth slot as it provides a consistent STAB move that doesn't require Tangela to switch out and provides a somewhat reliable form of recovery. Synthesis is a more consistent form of recovery but is generally an inferior option as reliable recovery is not a concern for this set.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs let Tangela hit as hard as possible and outspeed Alomomola and Golurk. Sludge Bomb is an option to hit Grass-types harder, but Roselia and Vileplume take only neutral damage from it. Hidden Power Ice and Hidden Power Fire are viable options to hit threats which Hidden Power Rock misses out on, such as Dragon- and Steel-types, respectively. While this set covers physical threats fairly well, Misdreavus provides another check to physical attackers and covers Fighting-types that can break through this set, making it a good partner. Psychic-types such as Gardevoir and Duosion as well as Ground-types such as Golurk can deal with Poison-types, making them great partners as well. Water- and Rock-types are good partners as they can deal with Fire-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A set utilizing Sunny Day + SolarBeam can be used, but is utterly outclassed by Exeggutor and Shiftry. A Life Orb can be used on the offensive set, but Tangela really needs the increased bulk from Eviolite. Physical sets and sets with Choice Specs can work but are gimmicky and shouldn't be used. Toxic can cripple switch-ins but Sleep Powder and Stun Spore are generally more useful. Protect eases prediction and helps Tangela scout for moves, but does nothing much for Tangela specifically. Leaf Storm in conjunction with Power Swap is a gimmicky strategy and should never be used.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Flying-types such as Mandibuzz, Rotom-S, and most variants of Braviary are great counters to Tangela and have enough bulk to take a Hidden Power Rock. While Charizard can threaten Tangela with its STABs, it is 4x weak to Stealth Rock, making it a shaky check. LumRest Exeggutor can switch in on Sleep Powder due to Lum Berry, resists Tangela's STAB, and can hit it hard with Psychic. Sap Sipper Pokemon such as Miltank and Sawsbuck can hard wall Tangela and set up on it. Poison-types such as Roselia and Garbodor can force Tangela out and set up Toxic Spikes on it. Lastly, Vital Spirit Magmar and RestTalk Flareon are rare counters but very effective due to not being affected by Sleep Powder.</p>