[Overview]

<p>Throh has fantastic bulk and a solid Attack stat, but what really separates itself from similar Pokemon such as Gurdurr is its better special bulk and ability to phaze out troublesome opponents. Between these factors and its access to Bulk Up, Throh becomes extremely hard to stop after a few boosts. It also has a great ability in Guts, allowing it to absorb most forms of status and utilize RestTalk effectively. Its low Speed is hardly a hindrance due to its ability to plow through teams with the combination of Bulk Up and Circle Throw. However, it is weak to Psychic and Flying, two common attacking types in NU that can wear it down quickly.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Phazer
move 1: Circle Throw
move 2: Bulk Up
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk / Payback
item: Leftovers / Chesto Berry
ability: Guts
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Circle Throw is Throh's best STAB option, as it can phaze while still doing damage, working very well alongide entry hazards. This also means that Throh's counters have a harder time switching in, as they must be careful of being phazed out. Bulk Up allows Throh to boost its Attack and Defense, allowing it to hit hard while being difficult to take down both physically and specially. Rest is Throh's only form of recovery, but serves its purpose adequately, allowing it to boost before healing itself, and adding to its longevity. As a bonus, it also allows Throh to hit harder while asleep thanks to Guts. Sleep Talk allows Throh to continue to damage and phaze opponents while asleep and avoid becoming a sitting duck. At the same time, it also gives Circle Throw neutral priority. Payback is another option as it is Throh's only way to hit Ghost-types, and forms perfect neutral coverage alongside Circle Throw.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Leftovers should be used when running Sleep Talk, while Chesto Berry should be used with Payback, as if not running Sleep Talk you will want to spend the least possible amount of time asleep, and therefore defenseless. A specially defensive EV spread is used to make Throh tough to take down on the special side, while relying on Bulk Up to boost its Defense. However, a more offensive EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD with an Adamant nature can be used alongside a Chesto Berry to allow Throh to immediately hit harder when it wakes up. Teammates that lay down entry hazards are essential, because otherwise, Throh is not as potent a threat. It also helps that some of Throh's biggest counters are also those more weak to entry hazards and are thus more easily worn down by constant phazing. Metang is an excellent teammate, sponging Flying- and Psychic-type attacks for Throh while setting up Stealth Rock. Misdreavus is also a great partner as it blocks the opponent's attempts to Rapid Spin away the entry hazards, while burning physical attackers to allow Throh to set up more easily. Pursuit trapping is also appreciated to ease Throh's trouble with Ghost- and Psychic-types, especially the former, which Throh is unable to hit if not running Payback. Therefore, Skuntank is a great partner, as it can trap and remove Ghost- and Psychic-types for Throh and allow it an easier time sweeping.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Bulk Up
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Bulk Up
move 3: Storm Throw
move 4: Ice Punch
item: Leftovers
ability: Mold Breaker
nature: Adamant
evs: 92 HP / 132 Atk / 120 SpD / 164 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set allows Throh to set up on weak defensive Pokemon that have difficulty breaking its Substitute. Unlike the bulky phazer set, this variant of Throh is able to defeat stall with less team support and avoids status without relying on Rest. Substitute allows Throh to avoid status and revenge killers, and thanks to its good bulk, most walls are unable to break through it in one hit. Bulk Up boosts Throh's Attack and Defense, allowing it to hit hard while making its Substitute even harder to break with physical attacks. Storm Throw is Throh's most powerful reliable STAB move, and due to its nature of always landing critical hits, it allows Throh to defeat other Throh and Gurdurr that try to set up Bulk Up alongside it. Finally, Ice Punch gives Throh the best neutral coverage in two moves, hitting the likes of Drifblim and Roselia hard.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Mold Breaker is the chosen ability as it allows Throh to OHKO offensive Carracosta through Solid Rock after Stealth Rock at +1 as well as OHKO Bastiodon through Sturdy before it gets phazed out. The HP EVs allow Throh to create 101 HP Substitutes that cannot be broken by Seismic Toss and Night Shade, allowing it to set up on Wartortle that lack Haze and Hypno if they use these moves. Alongside the given Special Defense EVs, Throh's Substitutes cannot be broken by weak moves from defensive Pokemon, including Tangela's Giga Drain, Roselia and Weezing's Sludge Bomb, Alomomola's Waterfall, and Regirock's Drain Punch, and Throh can proceed to set up on them. The Speed EVs allow Throh to outspeed Roselia and everything below that benchmark, including common walls such as Tangela and Alomomola. The rest of the EVs are placed into Attack to power up Throh. Unlike other sets, this variant of Throh can hit much harder immediately thanks to more investment in Attack and thus can perform well against offensive teams as well. Payback can be used over Ice Punch to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types slightly harder, but this fails to defeat Vileplume and Roselia, and Throh has no business staying in on the previously mentioned Ghost- and Psychic-types anyway. This variant of Throh despises status, especially Toxic Spikes, which limits its longevity as it is unable to rid itself of it. Hence, cleric support from the likes of Lickilicky and Audino is recommended. Grounded Poison-types, such as Scolipede and Garbodor, are also able to absorb Toxic Spikes. These Pokemon can also set up Toxic Spikes of their own to help Throh wear down bulky walls it otherwise cannot break, such as Musharna. Psychic-types are also problematic for this set due to their ability to tank hits from it and retaliate with a super effective STAB move. Hence, Skuntank and Liepard are good partners as they can Pursuit trap these Psychic-types and eliminate them for Throh. Finally, Metang makes for an excellent teammate, covering up on Throh's two weaknesses to Flying and Psychic while setting up Stealth Rock to aid in Throh's sweep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Throh can use a Toxic Orb alongside Guts to attack under Trick Room, with a moveset consisting of Superpower, Earthquake, Stone Edge, and Payback. However, such a set is extremely reliant on teammates to set up Trick Room for it, and it is not a very good strategy in the first place. Its reliance on Toxic Orb and Superpower also limits Throh's staying power, which is the main draw of using Throh in the first place. Toxic and Knock Off can be used to support Throh's teammates, but this is done better by Gurdurr due to the latter's access to Drain Punch. Brick Break is a powerful alternative STAB move that can break the opponent's dual screens, but it does not have the utility of phazing that Circle Throw does, and critical hits from Storm Throw ignore dual screens anyway.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It is very difficult to switch into Throh due to the threat of Circle Throw, especially with entry hazards on the field. Ghost-types are among the best counters as they are immune to Throh's STAB moves and completely wall bulky phazer Throh if it lacks Payback on the first set. SubDisable Drifblim and Haunter deserve a special mention as they completely wall Throh regardless of its moves by disabling Payback or Ice Punch. Bulky Psychic-types, such as Musharna, can tank a hit from Throh and retaliate with a powerful Psychic. Flying-types, such as Swellow and Braviary, can swiftly defeat Throh with a powerful Brave Bird, but they have trouble switching in unless they come in on a setup move. Pokemon with Taunt can prevent Throh from setting up or using Sleep Talk, making it easier to wear Throh down. Pokemon with Encore can also lock Throh into an unfavorable move and proceed to wear it down. Kadabra has Encore and deserves a special mention for its immunity to entry hazards and ability to quickly defeat Throh with Psychic. Mandibuzz and Golbat have access to Taunt and Toxic with which to defeat Throh. They also have access to Whirlwind to erase all of Throh's boosts even from behind a Substitute, and due to their higher Speed, can phaze before Throh's Circle Throw. Golbat even has access to Haze to remove any boosts that Throh has without resorting to negative priority. However, it should be noted that Circle Throw will still go before Whirlwind if called by Sleep Talk. Also, Mandibuzz has to take extra care when using Roost as Throh's STAB then becomes super effective.</p>