[Overview]

<p>Togetic has access to two moves that give it a niche in NU: Nasty Plot and Baton Pass. While Pokemon like Volbeat, Mr. Mime, and Musharna give Togetic fierce competition as a Baton Passer of Special Attack boosts, there are a few reasons to use Togetic over them. Unlike Volbeat, Togetic has a slow Baton Pass that allows it to bring in its teammates safely, without them taking damage. Togetic is also quite specially bulky, so it can take repeated hits while recovering them off with Roost. Other Baton Pass users have trouble dealing with their recipient's counters, but Togetic can deal with them relatively easily thanks to its large movepool. Togetic's typing isn't great, as it gives weaknesses to common types such as Ice and Rock. The weakness to Rock also makes it fairly easy to 2HKO after the damage from Stealth Rock. Togetic relies on Eviolite for its bulk, so it is easy to wear down.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Roost
move 4: Hyper Voice / Fire Blast
item: Eviolite
ability: Serene Grace
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Nasty Plot boosts Togetic's mediocre Special Attack and can potentially be passed on to a teammate to give them an opportunity to sweep or do some big damage to the opposing team. Baton Pass lets Togetic pass Nasty Plot boosts, as well as giving your team some momentum and allowing Togetic to act as a useful pivot. Roost recovers health to increase Togetic's longevity, and also helps alleviate the lack of passive recovery from Leftovers. Hyper Voice is the most reliable STAB option, as Tri Attack is illegal with Nasty Plot. However, it leaves Togetic completely walled by Ghost-types. Fire Blast is a strong alternative, and while it is not STAB, it lets Togetic hit Ghost-types and Pokemon weak to Fire such as Metang and Exeggutor. It can also help in removing the Baton Pass recipient's counter.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>248 HP is used to leave Togetic with some health after switching into Stealth Rock 4 times. Specially defensive Togetic is the optimal spread, as it allows Togetic to check many special attackers, including Serperior, Charizard, and Samurott. A physically defensive spread using 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD can be run, using a Bold nature. This makes Togetic a good check against Pokemon like Primeape. Steel-types such as Metang and Probopass act as good partners, as they resist Ice and Rock, while Togetic is immune to Ground. Any special attacker that appreciates a Nasty Plot boost is a good partner. Examples include Charizard, Samurott, and Serperior. Serperior works particularly well as it has a fast Taunt to disable opposing Taunt users that would otherwise stop Togetic from setting up and passing boosts. Seismitoad works very well with Togetic as it is immune to Electric-type attacks and also deals with Rock-types very well. Togetic resists Grass-type moves and can set up Nasty Plots in the Grass-types that force Seismitoad out. Seismitoad can also receive Nasty Plot boosts to open up a potential sweep. Electric-types also appreciate Nasty Plot boosts, while resisting Electric-type attacks often aimed at Togetic and beating Mandibuzz, which is annoying to Togetic.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Togetic has a very large movepool that it can make use of. Coverage moves include Shadow Ball, Grass Knot, and Signal Beam, each of which takes care of a specific group of threats. Togetic can choose not to use Nasty Plot and Baton Pass if it's not needed for your team, and use its wide range of support moves instead, such as Encore, Heal Bell, Magic Coat, Toxic, and Thunder Wave. It also gets Yawn, Wish, and Tailwind to act as a very useful support Pokemon. The combination of Yawn and Baton Pass can be used to gain momentum very easily, as the opponent will likely switch out after the use of Yawn, so you can Baton Pass for the switch advantage and easy momentum. Togetic has access to Light Screen and Reflect for a dual screens set, but running Light Clay over Eviolite takes away from its bulk too significantly, and not using Light Clay means it is outclassed by other dual screen users. You can choose to simply run a specially defensive walling set, with Tri Attack, Roost, and two support moves. Togetic can utilize the combination of Serene Grace and moves such as AncientPower, Silver Wind, and Ominous Wind to get +1 in every stat, but this tactic is unreliable and the moves themselves are very weak, so it's generally not worth using. Hustle can be used on a physical set, but Togetic is rather weak physically, so is better off supporting or attacking on the special side.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Phazers such as Bastiodon can stop Togetic from passing Nasty Plot boosts. Misdreavus with Perish Song can put Togetic on a timer, and force it to directly switch instead of using Baton Pass. Taunt users such as Misdreavus, Mandibuzz, and Serperior can shut down Togetic, stopping it from using any non-attacking moves. Mandibuzz commonly runs Taunt, Whirlwind, or both, so it is a big problem. It also doesn't take much even from a boosted Tri Attack or Fire Blast. Misdreavus can use both Taunt and Perish Song, as well as being immune to Tri Attack and bulky enough to take any coverage move Togetic may carry. Electric- and Rock-types, such as Eelektross, Golem, Carracosta, and Electabuzz, can deal with Togetic effectively thanks to their strong super effective STAB moves. Piloswine can take any attack, and use Ice Shard to prevent a Baton Pass or phaze with Roar. Piloswine can also do a lot of damage to Togetic with its strong Ice STAB moves. Strong physical attackers such as Sawk and Zangoose can easily beat Togetic through its mediocre physical defense.</p>