[Overview]

<p>Tropius doesn't fit in very well in NU. On one hand, Tropius's typing and bulk allows it to check threats such as Sawk, Golurk, and Swords Dance Samurott. In addition, Tropius's movepool is gigantic, and it has access to three good abilities. On the other hand, Tropius's typing leaves it vulnerable to most special attackers in NU, and its Speed is rather lackluster, which hinders any chances to go strictly offensive or defensive. The best bet Tropius has to fit on a team is to take advantage of Harvest, Leech Seed, and its Flying typing, turning it into a decent SubSeed user. Still, Tropius faces competition from Exeggutor, which wields similar bulk and higher Special Attack.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSeed
move 1: Leech Seed
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Air Slash
move 4: Protect / Toxic
item: Sitrus Berry
ability: Harvest
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 144 Def / 116 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Tropius supports its team with Leech Seed, spreading recovery to teammates whilst forcing switches. With Substitute, Tropius can wall many Pokemon by repeatedly using Substitute until Leech Seed KOes the opponent. This is possible because Harvest grants Tropius extra recovery through multiple Sitrus Berries. In addition, one of the greatest reasons to use Tropius over other SubSeed users is its Flying typing, which allows Tropius to threaten most Grass-type Pokemon attempting to switch in and absorb Leech Seed with a STAB Air Slash. Protect is an option so Tropius can stall longer and gain more chances to regain Sitrus Berries. However, Toxic can be used to dispose of the opponent more quickly.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The 116 Speed EVs allow Tropius to outspeed Alomomola and Tangela before they can use a crippling status move. Tropius can use its good bulk in a specially defensive set similar to this one, walling threats such as Gardevoir and Musharna. However, Tropius's weaknesses to Fire- and Ice-type moves really hinder its ability to wall special attackers. Metang is a good partner for Tropius because it can take all of the Poison-, Ice-, Flying-, and Rock-type attacks aimed at Tropius as well as gaining valuable recovery from Leech Seed. Water-types such as Samurott and Seismitoad cover Tropius's Fire- and Ice-type weaknesses and appreciate the recovery as well. Entry hazard support is also very important to Tropius because of the many switches it forces. Toxic Spikes support from Roselia or Garbodor is the most crucial because it limits the amount of times a Pokemon can stay in on Tropius, allowing it to safely use Substitute more often. Lastly, good offensive partners for Tropius are Braviary, Charizard, and Swellow, which can eliminate the Grass-types that tend to annoy Tropius.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Tropius has access to Roost, for even more recovery, and Whirlwind, for phazing. The LumRest combination is viable as well, allowing Tropius to fight status, which really hinders its performance in battle. Tropius has access to boosting moves such as Curse, Swords Dance, and Dragon Dance as well as offensive moves such as Leaf Blade, Aerial Ace, Nature Power, Bullet Seed, and Body Slam, but sweepers with higher Attack stats are more viable. Tropius can attempt to sweep in the sun with Chlorophyll or Solar Power, but it is outclassed by Victreebel, Sawsbuck, and Charizard in that regard. Tropius can also set sun, but Pokemon with better typings and abilities are more suited for the job.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Miltank absorbs Leech Seed with Sap Sipper, takes little damage from Air Slash, and can remove poison with Heal Bell. Duosion also avoids damage from Leech Seed and Toxic and can set up Calm Minds to minimize Air Slash damage. Pokemon with reliable recovery that take little damage from Air Slash can handle Tropius as well. RestTalk users can even beat Tropius with Toxic. Taunt users, such as Mandibuzz and Misdreavus, shut Tropius down. Status really hinders Tropius's performance in battle as well, so any faster Pokemon can cripple Tropius before it uses Substitute. Stealth Rock limits the amount of times Tropius can switch in, and setters such as Golem also wield Rock Blast, which can break through Tropius's Substitutes. Lastly, any special attacker with super effective coverage, such as Simisear or Charizard, can easily break through Tropius's Substitutes and force it out.</p>