[Overview]

<p>Simply put, Unfezant is not a good Pokemon in NU, being outclassed by almost every other Normal / Flying type in the metagame. Its main problem is its terrible movepool, even in comparison to other birds; it has almost no offensive movepool whatsoever (not even a decent Flying STAB) and although it has a slightly better support movepool, it lacks the bulk to take advantage of this. It hardly has a niche at all, and there is overall little reason to use it over Braviary, Swellow, or even Dodrio most of the time.</p>

[SET]
name: Tailwind Support
move 1: Tailwind
move 2: Hypnosis
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Return
item: Focus Sash
ability: Super Luck
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The best Unfezant can do is support offensive teams with Tailwind to increase their Speed temporarily and help its teammates switch in safely to take advantage of Tailwind as much as possible. Hypnosis puts the opponent to sleep so Unfezant can set up Tailwind while still having time to U-turn into a teammate in order to have an optimal matchup. If the need arises Unfezant can attack using STAB Return, which hits somewhat hard due to Unfezant's good Attack and is the strongest viable move Unfezant has access to. While the premise of this set is simple, Unfezant is still rather unreliable at best, as it is reliant on the inaccurate Hypnosis and the foe being asleep for several turns. Even then, Tailwind is not the greatest strategy as it only lasts for four turns, one of which is most likely used switching Unfezant out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Focus Sash is used so that Unfezant can survive a hit just in case Hypnosis misses or the opponent is faster. The good news for Unfezant is that it outspeeds Jolly Braviary by one point with an Adamant nature, so it can use Hypnosis on it before getting attacked. Jolly can be used to outspeed Pokemon such as Zangoose and Jolly Sawk that could otherwise defeat Unfezant rather quickly. However, it will usually outspeed all opponents after Tailwind, meaning that the Speed boost from Jolly isn't as important afterward. While maximum HP could be used rather than maximum Attack, Return actually can do a bit of damage and Unfezant still isn't that bulky even with maximum HP. Taunt is a decent alternative way to find a turn to try to set up Tailwind, but Hypnosis is ultimately better despite the imperfect accuracy, as it can incapacitate a Pokemon rather than just block its status moves. In regards to teammates, offensive Pokemon that have a decent Speed but aren't quite fast enough, such as Samurott, Exeggutor, Zangoose, and Sawk, appreciate the boost provided by Tailwind, enabling them to outspeed faster Pokemon that would normally threaten them, such as Charizard. As Unfezant is usually used as a lead and will rarely be useful or have any useful, lasting effects after the first few turns, its weaknesses do not need to be accounted for.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Unfezant has a lot of healing moves, including Wish, Roost, and Morning Sun, but it is unlikely to be able to pull off the last two and it is outclassed as a Wish user due to its mediocre HP stat; its Stealth Rock weakness further limits any potential usage for pure support, something that Pokemon such as Audino do not have problems with. Toxic can be used to get past the many Pokemon that Unfezant doesn't have the coverage moves to defeat, but it doesn't have the space. Its decent offensive stats and U-turn might look appealing for a Choice Band or Choice Scarf set, but its only offensive moves with any competitive merit are Return, Quick Attack, Pluck, U-turn, and Steel Wing, which give awful coverage. Taunt, U-turn, and weather-inducing moves can make Unfezant a decent weather supporter, but there are better options out there to fill that role.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Lum Berry Golem is the best counter to Unfezant, as it doesn't care about Hypnosis and can bypass its Unfezant's Focus Sash with Rock Blast. Other than Golem, Unfezant struggles to break through any Pokemon with a Rock or Steel typing, including but not limited to Probopass, Regirock, and Metang. Electabuzz doesn't take Return very well, but it is faster and has Vital Spirit to negate Hypnosis. Ghost-types such as Haunter and Misdreavus can set up a Substitute or completely wall Unfezant, and Misdreavus even gets Taunt to render Unfezant useless. Due to Unfezant's lack of powerful attacks and reliance on a Normal STAB move, almost any Pokemon with good physical bulk will wall Unfezant rather easily, and due to its lackluster bulk, anything faster than it, especially those with special moves such as Charizard, can easily OHKO Unfezant if its Focus Sash is broken.</p>