[Overview]

<p>Wigglytuff is horribly outclassed by Lickilicky and Audino, both of which have much better bulk and abilities. Despite having a larger HP stat, allowing it to pass larger Wishes, Wigglytuff's poor bulk means it often has to keep the Wishes to heal itself, given that it can be 2HKOed by many powerful special attackers; hence, Lickilicky and Audino tend to get the job done more effectively. Wigglytuff's low offensive stats also make it setup fodder and Taunt bait. Its only niche is its ability to set up Stealth Rock while providing Wish support at the same time, but, otherwise, it fails to provide the sort of sustained team support that Lickilicky or Audino are able to.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Wish
move 3: Protect
move 4: Double-Edge
item: Leftovers
ability: Frisk
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Wiggytuff's access to Stealth Rock sets it apart from other Wish users; without it, there would be no reason to use Wigglytuff at all. In addition, Wigglytuff can support its teammates by passing one of the biggest Wishes in NU, courtesy of its high HP stat. Protect allows Wigglytuff to scout its opponents' moves and receive its own Wishes safely. Note that this move may need to be used often because of Wigglytuff's poor bulk, so that it may receive its own Wishes and simultaneously avoid a hit that would KO it. However, be aware that Protect grants opponents free turns, which can easily be taken advantage of with free switches or setup opportunities, so caution must be exercised when using this move. Double-Edge prevents Wigglytuff from being Taunt bait and can break through Substitutes. Wigglytuff's high HP stat also means that the recoil damage does not matter too much to it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Heal Bell is a nice support move to rid Wigglytuff and its teammates of status, but there is hardly any room to fit it in. Seismic Toss can be used over Double-Edge for consistent damage against Rock- and Steel-types, but it is illegal with Frisk, and one must then use the extremely situational and often useless Cute Charm. Magic Coat is a decent option to bounce back Taunt, status moves, and entry hazards, but like Heal Bell, it is hard to fit into the moveset. Similarly, Thunder Wave and Toxic are decent moves to cripple fast threats and stall out opposing walls, respectively, which would be great if only there were a little more room on the set. Alomomola is a great teammate that can take physical hits while forming a double Wish combo with Wigglytuff. Misdreavus can take most physical attacks, provide cleric support for Wigglytuff, and appreciates Wish support from Wigglytuff. Mandibuzz can defeat Ghost-types such as Golurk and Misdreavus that threaten to defeat or set up on Wigglytuff, while phazing out greedy opponents that try and set up on Wigglytuff. Wigglytuff absolutely despises Toxic Spikes they limit its longevity; grounded Poison-types, particularly Garbodor, are good teammates in order to absorb them. Garbodor can also take most Fighting-type attacks aimed at Wigglytuff, enjoys Wish support, and can set up Toxic Spikes of its own to aid in Wigglytuff's stalling. Finally, teammates that appreciate Wish support are good options. These include Gurdurr, Skuntank, and Choice Band Braviary.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Wigglytuff has access to dual screens, but it is outclassed in this role by Audino and Gardevoir, both of which have better bulk, the latter also having access to moves such as Memento and Healing Wish. Perish Song is a nice win condition for stall teams and prevents opponents from setting up on Wigglytuff, but it has trouble fitting it into any moveset. Disable is a decent option to mess with Choice item attackers, but Wigglytuff's four moveslot-syndrome, low Speed, and poor bulk hold this strategy back. Wigglytuff has a large offensive movepool of special attacks, including Focus Blast, Ice Beam, Fire Blast, and Shadow Ball, but Wigglytuff's low offensive stats mean an offensive set is simply ineffective. Finally, Wigglytuff can surprise physical attackers with Counter and a Focus Sash, but this strategy is gimmicky at best and is ruined by entry hazards.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fighting-types are the best counters to Wigglytuff as they almost always OHKO it. Scraggy and Gurdurr are notable for their ability to heal back any lost HP with Drain Punch. Ghost-types, such as Nasty Plot Misdreavus, Drifblim, and SubDisable Haunter, can set up on Wigglytuff without worry. Klang also sets up on Wigglytuff, as Double-Edge does pitiful damage to it. Pokemon with Taunt, such as Calm Mind Serperior and Mandibuzz, defeat Wigglytuff as it has no effective way to fight back. Bulky setup sweepers such as Substitute + Bulk Up Braviary and Substitute + Swords Dance Lickilicky set up all over Wigglytuff. Toxic Spikes also ruin Wigglytuff's day by limiting its longevity; Roselia and Garbodor are able to set them up. Wigglytuff is also beaten by most other walls since it doesn't usually run Toxic. For instance, Regirock and Tangela wall it completely and can wear it down while restoring HP with Drain Punch and Leech Seed, respectively. Encore and Trick are also good ways to cripple Wigglytuff by locking it into a useless support move, and can be used by the likes of Kadabra and Gardevoir, respectively, but neither of them like taking a Double-Edge. Finally, most powerful moves will overwhelm Wigglytuff, especially on the physical side, because in reality Wigglytuff is not bulky at all.</p>
